THE NEW STATEBy Mary Parker FollettAppendix:The Training For The New DemocracyTHE training for the new democracy must be from the cradle --through nursery, school and play, and on and on through everyactivity of our life. Citizenship is not to be learned in goodgovernment classes or current events courses or lessons in civics.It is to be acquired only through those modes of living and actingwhich shall teach us how to grow the social consciousness. Thisshould be the object of all day school education, of all nightschool education, of all our supervised recreation, of all ourfamily life, of our club life, of our civic life.  When we change our ideas of the relation of the individual tosociety, our whole system of education changes. What we want toteach is interdependence, that efficiency waits on discipline, thatdiscipline is obedience to the whole of which I am a part.Discipline has been a word long connected with school life -- whenwe know how to teach _social_ discipline, then we shall know how to"teach school."  The object of education is to fit children into the life of thecommunity [1]. Every cooperative method conceivable, therefore,must be used in our schools for this end. It is at school thatchildren should begin to learn group initiative, groupresponsibility -- in other words social functioning. The groupprocess must be learnt by practice. We should therefore teachsubjects which require a working together, we should have grouprecitations, group investigations, and a gradual plan ofself-government.  Every child must be shown his place in the lifethat builds and his relation to all others who are building. Allthe little daily and hourly experiences of his interrelations mustbe constantly interpreted to him. Individual competition must, ofcourse, disappear. All must see that the test of success is abilityto work with others, not to surpass others.     1. The western states feel that they are training members of     society and not individuals and that is why it seems proper to     them to take public money to found state universities.  Group work is, indeed, being introduced into our more progressiveschools. Manual training, especially when the object made is largeenough to require the work of two or more, cooking classes, schoolpapers, printing classes etc., give opportunity for organizationinto groups with the essential advantage of the group: coordinatedeffort.  Moreover, we should have, and are beginning to have, grouprecitations. A recitation should not be to test the pupil but tocreate something. Every pupil should be made to feel that his pointof view is slightly different from any one's else, and that,therefore, he has something to contribute. He is not to "recite"something which the teacher knows already; he is to contribute notonly to the ideas of his fellow-pupils but also to those of histeacher. And this is not impossible even for the youngest. Oncewhen I was in Paris I made the acquaintance of little Michael, acharming English boy of five, who upon being taken to the Louvre byhis mother and asked what he thought of the Mona Lisa, replied,with a most pathetic expression, "I don't think she looks as if sheliked little boys."  That was certainly a contribution to Mona Lisacriticism.  But after the child has been taught in his group recitation tocontribute his own point of view, he must immediately be shown thathe cannot over-insist upon it; he must be taught that it is only apart of the truth, that he should be eager for all the other pointsof view, that all together they can find a point of view which noone could work out alone. In other words we can teach collectivethinking through group recitations.  A group recitation may give each pupil the feeling that a wholeis being created: (1) by different points of view being brought outand discussed, and (2) by every one contributing somethingdifferent: one will do some extra reading, one will bring clippingsfrom newspapers and periodicals, one will take his camera to theArt Museum and take pictures of the casts. Thus we get life, andthe lesson of life, into that hour. Thus may we learn theobligation and the joy of "belonging," not only when our schoolgoes to play some other school, but in every recitation hour of theday. The old idea was that no one should help another in arecitation; the new idea is that every one is to help every oneelse. The kind of competition you have in a group recitation iswhether you have added as much as any one else. You now feelresponsible not only for your contribution but that the recitationas a whole should be a worthy thing. Such an aim will overcome muchof the present class-room indifference.  Many more of the regular school activities could be arranged ona group basis than is now thought possible -- investigation forinstance. This is a big word, but the youngest children sent out tothe woods in spring are being taught "original research."  Again, every good teacher teaches her pupils to "assemble" hisdifferent thoughts, shows them that a single thought is not useful,but only as it is connected with others. The modern teacher is likethe modern curator who thinks the group significance of aparticular classification more important than the significance ofeach isolated piece. The modern teacher does not wish his pupils'minds to be like an old-fashioned museum -- a hodge-podge ofisolated facts -- but a useful workshop.  Again, to learn genuine discussion should be considered anessential part of our education. Every child must be trained tomeet the clash of difference -- difference of opinion, differenceof interest -- which life brings. In some universities professorsare putting aside one hour a week for a discussion hour. Thisshould be done in all colleges and schools, and then it should beseen to that it is genuine discussion that takes place in thathour.  Moreover, in many schools supervised playground and gymnasiumactivities are being established, athletic clubs encouraged,choruses and dramatic leagues developed, not only because of theirvalue from the health or art point of view, but because they teachthe social lesson.  The question of self-government in the schools is too complicateda subject and has met with too many difficulties, notwithstandingits brilliant successes, to take up here, but undoubtedly someamount of self-control can be given to certain groups, and in theupper grades to whole schools, and when this can be done notraining for democracy is equal to the practice of democracy.  The aim is to create such a mental atmosphere for children thatit is natural for them to wish to take their part, to make themunderstand that citizenship is not obeying the laws nor voting, noreven being President [1], but that all the visions of their highestmoments, all the aspirations of their spiritual nature can besatisfied through their common life, that only thus do we get"practical politics."     1. A little girl I know said, "Mother, if women get the vote,     shall I have to be President?"  In our industrial schools it is obviously easier to carry furtherthe teaching of coordinated effort than in the regular day schools.  Our evening schools must adopt the methods of the moreprogressive day schools, and must, as they are doing in many cases,add to the usual activities of evening schools.  The most conscious and deliberate preparation for citizenship isgiven by the "School Centres" now being established all over theUnited States. The School Centre movement is a movement to mold thefuture, to direct evolution instead of trusting to evolution.  Thesubject of this book has been the necessity for communityorganization, but the ability to meet this necessity implies thatwe know how to do that most difficult thing in the world -- workwith other people: that we are ready to sacrifice individualinterests to the general good, that we have a fully developed senseof responsibility, that we are trained in initiative and action.But this is not true. If the School Centres are to fill animportant place in neighborhood life, they must not only give anopportunity for the development of neighborhood consciousness andneighborhood organization, but they must train up young people tobe ready for neighborhood organization. We who believe in theSchool Centre as one of the most effective means we have forreconstructing city life believe that the School Centre can furnishthis training. We hear everywhere of the corruption of Americanmunicipal politics, but why should the next generation do anybetter than the present unless we are training our young men andwomen to a proper understanding of the meaning of good citizenshipand the sense of their own responsibility?  The need of democracyto-day is a trained citizenship.  We must deliberately train forcitizenship as for music, art or trade.  The School Centres are, infact, both the prophecy of the new democracy and a method of itsfulfillment. They provide an opportunity for its expression, and atthe same time give to men and women the opportunity for thetraining needed to bring it to its highest expression.  The training in the School Centres consists of: group activities,various forms of civic clubs and classes, and practice inself-government.  First, we have in the Centres those activities which requireworking together, such as dramatic and choral clubs, orchestras andbands, civic and debating clubs, folk-dancing and team-games. Wewant choral unions and orchestras, to be sure, because they willenrich the community life at the same time that they emphasize theneighborhood bond, we want civic and debating clubs because we allneed enlightenment on the subjects taken up in these clubs, but theprimary reason for choosing such activities is that they are groupactivities where each learns to identify himself with a socialwhole. This is the first lesson for all practical life. Take twoyoung men in business. One says of his firm, "_They_ are doing soand so": his attitude is that the business is a complete whole,without him, to which he may indeed be ministering in some degree.Another young man who has been a few weeks with an old-establishedfirm says "_We_ have done so and so for years," "_Our_ policy is soand so." You perhaps smile but you know that he possesses one ofthe chief requirements for rising.  In our group the centre of consciousness is transferred from ourprivate to our associate life.  Thus through our group activitiesdoes neighborhood life become a preparation for neighborhood life;thus does it prepare us for the pouring out of strength and strainand effort in the common cause.  Then the consciousness of the solidarity of the group leadsdirectly to a sense of responsibility, responsibility in a groupand for a group. Sooner or later every one in a democracy must askhimself, what am I worth to society?  Our effort in the Centres isto help the birth of that moment. This is the social lesson: forpeople to understand that their every act, their work, theirhome-life, the kind of recreation they demand, the kind ofnewspapers they read, the bearing of their children, the bringingup of their children -- that all these so-called private actscreate the city in which they live. It is not just when we vote, ormeet together in political groups, or when we take part in somecharitable or philanthropic or social scheme, that we areperforming our duty to society. Every single act of our life shouldbe looked at as a social act.  Moreover, we learn responsibility for our group as well as to ourgroup. We used to think, "I must do right no matter what anyoneelse does." Now we know how little that exhausts our duty; we mustfeel an equally keen responsibility for our whole group.  These then are the lessons which we hope group activities willteach -- solidarity, responsibility and initiative, -- how to takeone's place worthily in a self-directed, self-governing community.  In the first year of one of our Boston Centres, the people of acertain nationality asked if they might meet regularly at theCentre. At their first meeting, however, they broke up withoutaccomplishing anything, without even deciding to meet again, simplybecause those present had never learned how to do things with otherpeople. Each man seemed a little island by himself. They explainedto me the fact that they made no plans for further meeting bysaying that they found they did not know parliamentary law, andsome of them must learn parliamentary law before they couldorganize. I did not feel, however, that that was the real reason.I was sure it was because they had never been accustomed to dothings in groups -- they had probably never belonged to abasketball team or a dramatic club -- and we have to learn thetrick of association as we have to learn anything else.  But the Centres prepare for citizenship not only by groupactivities but also by direct civic teaching. This takes the formnot only of lectures, classes in citizenship, but also of societieslike the "junior city councils" or the "legislatures" wheremunicipal and state questions are discussed, and young men's andyoung women's civic clubs. And it must be remembered that the chiefvalue of these clubs is not the information acquired, not even theinterest aroused, but the lesson learned of genuine discussion withall the advantages therefrom [1].     1. See pp.208-212.  But I have written as if it were our young people who were to beeducated by the group activities of the Centres, as if the youngpeople were to have the training for democracy and the older peoplethe exercise of democracy. Nothing could be further from mythoughts. The training for democracy can never cease while weexercise democracy. We older ones need it exactly as much as theyounger ones. That education is a continuous process is a truism.It does not end with graduation day; it does not end when "life"begins. Life and education must never be separated. We must havemore life in our universities, more education in our life. Chesterton says of H. G. Wells, "One can lie awake nights and hearhim grow." That it might be said of all of us! We need educationall the time and we all need education. The "ignorant vote" doesnot (or should not) mean the vote of the ignorant, we get anignorant vote very often from educated people; an ignorant votemeans ignorance of some particular subject.  A successful business man said to me the other day, "I graduatedfrom college with honors, but all I learned there has done melittle good directly. What I got out of college was an attitudetowards life: that life was a matter of constantly learning, thatmy education had began and was going on as long as I lived." Thenhe went on to say, "This is the attitude I want somehow to get intomy factory. Boys and girls come to me with the idea, 'School isover, learning is behind me, now work begins.' This is all wrong.I am now planning a school in connection with my factory, notprimarily on account of what they will learn in the school, but inorder to make them see that their life of steady learning is justbeginning and that their whole career depends on their getting thisattitude." Now this is what we want the Centres to do for people:to help them acquire the attitude of learning, to make them seethat education is for life, that it is as valuable for adults asfor young people.  We have many forms of adult education: extension courses,continuation and night schools, correspondence schools, courses insettlements, Young Men's Christian Associations etc. And yet allthese take a very small per cent of our adult population. Where arepeople to get this necessary education? Our present form ofindustry does not give enough. Tending a machine all day is notconducive to thought [1];  a man thus employed gets to relyentirely on his foreman. The man who lets his foreman do histhinking for him all day tends to need a political boss at night.We must somehow counteract the paralyzing effect of the methods ofmodern industry.  In the School Centre we have an opportunity foradult education in the only forms in which many people, tired outwith the day's work, can take it: discussion, recreation, groupactivities and self-governing clubs.  The enormous value of thatrapidly spreading movement, the forum movement, and its connectionwith the School Centres, there is space here only to mention.     1. Also men have less opportunity for discussion at work than     formerly.  Many people, however, even if not the majority, are eager andhungry for what one man spoke to me of as "real education."University extension work is spreading rapidly and in many casesadapting itself marvelously to local needs; a much closerconnection could be made between the opportunities of theuniversity and the training of the citizen for his proposedincreased activity in the state by having university extension worka recognized part of the School Centre, so that every one, thefarmer or the humblest workman, might know that even although hecannot give all his time to college life, he may have the advantageof its training. In the School Centre should be opportunity for thestudy of social and economic conditions, the work of constitutionalconventions, the European situation and our relation to it, theSouth American situation and our relation to it, etc. etc.  Moreover, we must remember when we say we all need moreeducation, that even if we could be "entirely" educated, so tospeak, at any one minute, the next minute life would have set newlessons for us. The world is learning all the time about health,food values, care of children etc. All that science discovers mustbe spread. Adult education means largely the assimilation of newideas; from this point of view no one can deny its necessity.  I have said that the Centres prepare for citizenship throughgroup activities, through civic clubs and classes and throughactual practice in self-government.  The Centres may be a realtraining in self-government, a real opportunity for the developmentof those qualities upon which genuine self-direction depends, byevery club or group being self-governed, and the whole Centreself-directed and self-controlled by means of delegates electedfrom each club meeting regularly in a Central Council. If we wanta nation which shall be really self-governed not just nominallyself-governed, we must train up our young people in the ways ofself-direction.  Moreover, the development of responsibility and self-directionwill be the most effective means of raising standards. We arehearing a great deal just now of regulated recreation, regulateddance halls etc. We must give regulation a secondary place. Thereis something better than this which ought to be the aim of allrecreation leaders, that is, to educate our young people to wanthigher standards by interpreting their own experience to them andby getting them to think in tern of cause and effect. You can forcea moral code on people from above yet this will change them verylittle, but by a system of self-governing clubs with leaders whoknow how to lead, we can make real progress in educating people tohigher standards. This is true of athletic games as well as ofdances.  We find, indeed, that it is true of all parts of ourCentre work. Through the stormy paths of club election of officers,I have seen leaders often guide their young men to an understandingof honest politics. It is usually easier, it is true, to do _for_people, it is easier to "regulate" their lives, but it is not theway to bring the results we wish. We need education, notregulation.  Self-government in the Centres then means not only the electionof officers and the making of a constitution, but a real managementof club and Centre affairs, the opportunity to take initiative, tomake choices and decisions, to take responsibility. The test of oursuccess in the Centres will always be how far we are developing theself-shaping instinct. But we must remember that we have not givenself-government by allowing the members of a club to record theirvotes. Many people think a neighborhood association or club isself-governing if a question is put to them and every one votesupon it. But if a club is to be really self-governed it must firstlearn collective thinking. This is not a process which can behurried, it will take time and that time must not be grudged.Collective thinking must be reverenced as an act of creation. Thetime spent in evolving the group spirit is time spent in creatingthe dynamic force of our civilization.  Moreover each Centre should be begun, directed and supported (asfar as possible) by the adult people of a community acting togetherfor that end. A Centre should not be an undertaking begun by theSchool Committee and run by the School Committee, but each Centreshould be organized by local initiative, to serve local needs,through methods chosen by the people of a district to suit thatparticular district. The ideal School Centre is a Community Centre.A group of citizens asks for the use of a schoolhouse after schoolhours, with heat, light, janitor, and a director to make thenecessary connection between the local undertaking and the citydepartment. Then that group of citizens is responsible for theCentre: for things worth while being done in the schoolhouse, andfor the support of the activities undertaken.  By the time such aSchool Centre is organized by such an association of citizens,neighbors will have become acquainted with one another in a morevital way than before, and they will have begun to learn how tothink and to act together as a neighborhood unit.  We are coming to a more general realization of this. In themunicipal buildings in the parks of Chicago, the people are notgiven free lectures, free moving pictures, free music, free dancesetc.; they are invited to develop their own activities. To theRecreation Centres of New York, operated by the Board of Education,are being added the Community Centres controlled by local boards ofneighbors. In Boston we have under the School Committee adepartment of "The Extended Use of School Buildings," and the aimis to get the people of each district to plan, carry out andsupervise what civic, educational and recreational activities theywish in the schoolhouses.  A Chicago minister said the other day that the south side ofChicago was the only part of the city where interest in civicproblems and community welfare could be aroused, and this he saidwas because of the South Park's work in field houses, clubrooms andgymnasiums for the last ten or twelve years.  When the chairman of the Agricultural Council of Defense ofVirginia asked a citizen of a certain county what he thought theprospects were of being able to rouse the people in his county inregard to an increased food production, the prompt reply was, "Onthe north side of the county we shall have no trouble because wehave several Community Leagues there, hut on the south side it willbe a hard job."  The School or Community Centre is the real continuation school ofAmerica, the true university of true democracy.