THE NEW STATE
By Mary Parker Follett

Chapter XV
From Contract to Community

But perhaps nowhere in our national life is the growing recognition
of the group or community principle so fundamental for us as in our
modern theory of law.  Mr. Roscoe Pound has opened a new future for
America by his exposition of modern law, an exposition which
penetrates and illuminates every department of our thought.  Let us
speak briefly of this modern theory of law.  It is: (1) that law is
the outcome of our community life, (2) that it must serve, not
individuals, but the community.

  Mr. Pound, in a series of articles on "The Scope and Purpose of
Sociological Jurisprudence" in the Harvard Law Review (1910-1912),
points out that it was an epoch-making moment when attention began
to be turned from the nature of law to its purpose.  The old
conception of law was that "new situations are to be met always by
deductions from old principles."  The new school (headed by
Jhering) believe that "law is a product of conscious and
increasingly determinate human will."  "Legal doctrines and legal
interests do not work themselves out blindly, but have been
fashioned by human wants to meet human needs."  Before Jhering the
theory of law had been individualistic; Jhering's is a social
theory of law.  "The eighteenth century conceived of law as
something which the individual invoked against society; ... Jhering
taught that it was something created by society through which the
individual found a means of securing his interests, so far as
society recognized them."  And Jhering called his a jurisprudence
of realities; he wanted legal precepts worked out and tested by
results.  For instance, if a rule of commercial law were in
question, the search should be for the rule which best accords with
and gives effect to sound business practice [1].

     1.  Col. Law Rev. 8, 610.

    So Mr. Pound tells us, the idea of justice as the maximum of
individual self-assertion, which began to appear at the end of the
sixteenth century and reached its highest development in the
nineteenth century, began to give way towards the end of the
nineteenth century to the new idea of the end of law.  Modern
jurists have come to consider the working of law more than its
abstract content; they lay stress upon the social purposes which
law subserves rather than upon sanction [2].

     2.  Pound, Outlines of Lectures on Jurisprudence, p. 20.  The
     influence of sociology on law has here been very marked.  For
     further discussion of a teleological jurisprudence see ch.
     XXIX.

  Mr. Pound then shows us that Gierke's theory of association
"became as strong an attack upon the individualistic jurisprudence
of the nineteenth century upon one side as Jhering's theory of
interests was upon another."  The "real personality" of the group
is plainly expounded by Gierke, that it is not a legal fiction,
that is that the law does not create it but merely recognizes that
which already exists, that this "real person" is more than an
aggregation of individuals, that these is a group will which is
something real apart from the wills of the associated individuals.

  Thus German jurists recognize the principle of "community."  The
theory of Vereinbarung, as expounded by Jellinek [3], is also 
recognition of the fact that one will can be formed from several. 
The present tendency to work out the law of association through the
study of the group is marked and significant.

     3.  Duguit, L'Etat, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive, 398-
     409, from Jellinek, System der subjektiren offentlichen
     Rechte, 193.

  The chief consequence of this growing tendency in modern juristic
thinking is seen in the change in attitudes toward contract.  The
fundamental question of relation, of association, is -- Can you
make one idea grow where two grew before?  _This_ is the law of
fruitful increase.  The gradual progress away from contract in
legal theory is just the gradual recognition of this principle. 
You can have a contractual relation between two wills or you can
have those two wills uniting to form one will.  Contract never
creates one will.  It is the latter process which is shown in the
development of corporation law [1].

     1.  The whole legal history of associations and the
     development of association law throws much light on the growth
     of the community idea.

The laws regulating partnership are based on contractual relations
between the individual members.  The laws regulating corporations
are based on the theory that a corporation is something quite
different from the individuals who constitute it or the sum of
those individuals, that a new entity has been created.  I am
writing at this moment (February, 1918) in a room with the
thermometer at 42, but the law would not uphold me in going and
getting my share, as a stockholder, of the coal now in the New
York, New Haven and Hartford sheds!  But to many the personality of
the corporation is a fiction: they do not consider the corporation
a self-created entity but a state-created entity.  To others,
following Gierke, the corporation is merely a state_recognized_
entity, it has the inherent power to create itself.  The increasing
acceptance of this latter theory has made it possible to hold
liable groups which have not been legally incorporated but which
exercise powers analogous to those of corporations.  This has been
the principle of some of the English decisions making trade-unions
responsible, as notably in the Taff-Vale case.

  The paradox of contract is that while it seems to be based on
relation, it is in reality based on the individual. Contract is a
particularist conception.  Mr. Pound speaks of the significance of
the "parallel movement away from liberty of contract and yet at the
same time towards the full recognition of association."  It is the
legal theory of association based on our growing understanding of
group psychology which will finally banish contract.  When Duguit,
the eminent French jurist, tells us that contract is diminishing,
it is because he sees a time when all juridical manifestations will
come from unilateral acts [1].

     1.  Also, I recognize, because his _"droit objectif"_ based on
     social solidarity tends to sweep away contract.  It is
     interesting to notice that contract is being attacked from
     more than one point of view.  The bearing of all this on
     politics will be seen later, especially in ch. XXIX,
     "Political Pluralism and Sovereignty."

We see contract diminishing because we believe in a different mode
of association: as fast as association becomes a "community"
relation, as fast as individuals are recognized as community-units,
just so fast does contract fade away.  Jellinek points out that
legal theory is coming to recognize that violation of community is
quite different from violation of contract.

  From status to contract we do not now consider the history of
liberty but of particularism -- the development of law through
giving a larger and larger share to the particular will.  The
present progress of law is from contact to community.  Our
particularistic law is giving way to a legal theory based on a
sound theory of interrelationship.  Our common law has considered
men as separate individuals, not as members of one another.  These
separate individuals were to be "free" to fight out their
differences as best they could it being overlooked that freedom for
one might not mean freedom for the other, as in the case of
employer and employed.  "Individual rights" in practice usually
involve some difference of opinion as to who is the individual! Mr.
Olney said of the Adair case: "It is archaic, it is a long step
into the past, to conceive of and deal with the relations between
the employer in such industries and the employee as if the parties
were individuals."[1]

     1.  Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Col. Law Rev. 8, 616.

  The principles of individual rights and contract which have long
dominated our courts [2] are giving way now to sounder doctrine. 
The old idea was that a man could do what he liked with his own;
this is not the modern notion of law.  We find a judge recently
saying: "The entire scheme of prohibition as embodied in the
Constitution and laws of Kansas might fail, if the right of each
citizen to manufacture intoxicating liquors for his own use or as
a beverage were recognized.  Such a right does not inhere in
citizenship."[3]

     2.  Statutes limiting the hours of labor were held
     unconstitutional, railway corporations were held not to be
     required to furnish discharged employees with a cause for
     dismissal, etc.

     3.  Harlan, J., in Muglar v Kansas, 123 U.S. 623.  Taken from
     Roscoe Pound, Liberty of Contract, Yale Law Journal, 18, 468.

Our future law is to serve neither classes nor individuals, but the
community.  The lawyer is to bring his accumulation of knowledge
not to his clients merely, but to enrich and interpret and adjust
our whole social life.

  We have many signs to-day of the growing recognition of community
as the basis of law.  The following are taken from an article by
Mr. Pound:[4]

     4.  The End of Law as Developed in Legal Rules and Doctrines,
     Harv. Law Rev. 27, 195-234.

  The increasing tendency of law to impose limitations on the use
of property, limitations to prevent the anti-social use of
property.  This has already been noticed in our new building laws.

  The limitations now imposed on freedom of contract.  This is
shown in the statutes regulating the hours and conditions of labor,
in the law of insurance [1], in the judicial decisions which have
established that the duties of public service corporations are not
contractual, flowing from agreement, but quasi-contractual, flowing
from the calling in which the public servant is engaged.

     1.  "Statutes ... have taken many features of the subject out
     of the domain of agreement and the tendency of judicial
     decision has been in effect to attach rights and liabilities
     to the relation of insurer and insured and thus to remove
     insurance from the category of contract."

  Limitations on the part of creditor or injured party to exact
satisfaction.  This is illustrated by the homestead exemptions
which prevail in many states, and such exemptions as tools to
artisans, libraries to professional men, and animals and implements
to farmers.

  Imposition of liability without fault, as illustrated to
workman's compensation and employers' liability [2].

     2.  The old idea of "contributory negligence" is seen in the
     following decision: "We must remember that the injury
     complained of is due to the negligence of a fellow workman,
     for which the master is responsible neither in law nor
     morals."  Durkin v. Coal Co. 171, Pa. St. 193, 205.  Quoted by
     Roscoe Pound in Yale Law Journal, 18, 467.

  Water rights are now interpreted with limitations on the owners. 
The idea is becoming accepted that running water is an asset of
society which is not capable of private appropriation or ownership
except under regulations that protect the general interest.  This
tendency is changing the whole water law of the western states.

  Insistence on interest of society in dependent members of
household.  With respect to children it is not the individual
interest of the parents, but the interest of society which is
regarded.

  Thus modern law is being based more and more upon a recognition
of the community principle.

  When we sometimes hear a lawyer talk of such measures as old age
pensions as a matter of "social expediency," we know that he has
not yet caught the community idea in law.  Modern law considers
individuals not as isolated beings, but in their relation to the
life of the whole community.  Thus in shortening the hours of work
the courts can no longer say this is an "unwarrantable
interference" with individual liberty; they have to consider the
health of the individual in its relation to his family and his
work, also the use he will make of his leisure, the need he has for
time to perform his duties as citizen, etc. etc.  Mr. Pound points
out with great clearness that relation is taking the place of
contract in modern law.  Workman's compensation arises from the
theory of reciprocal rights and duties and liabilities which flow
from a relation.  This he tells us was the common law conception
until deflected by contract; now we are going back to it and we do
not ask the strict terms of the contract, but what the relation
demands.

  Perhaps social psychology can give two warnings to this new
tendency of law.  First this relation must not be a personal
relation.  I have spoken several times of our modern legal system
as based on relation, but this must not be confused with the
relation of the Middle Ages.  Then the fundamental truth of
relation, that life is a web of relationships, was felt
intuitively, but it was worked out on its personal side.  The
feudal age lived in the idea of relation, but the heart of the
feudal system was personal service.  It was like loyalty to the
party chief: right or wrong, the vassal followed his lord to the
battlefield and died with him there.  Because it was worked out on
its personal side it had many imperfections, and the inevitable
reaction swung far away.  Now the pendulum is returning to relation
as the truth of life, but it is to be impersonal.  Employers and
employed must study the ideal relation and try to actualize that. 
We seek always the law of true community.

  Secondly, the relation itself must always be in relation.  But
these warnings are not necessary for our progressive judges.  It is
interesting to read the decisions of our common-law judges with
this view: to see how often the search is for the law of the actual
conditions and what obligations those actual conditions create, not
for a personal relation with some abstract conception of a static
relation.  It is of a _relation in relation_ that judges must, and
often to-day do, consider: not landlord and tenant as landlord and
tenant, not master and servant as master and servant, but of that
relation in relation to other relations, or, we might say, to
society.  This growing conception of a dynamic relation in itself
means a new theory of law [1].

     1.  This is the "new natural law" of which Mr. Pound speaks as
     "the revival of the idealist interpretation which is the
     enduring possession of philosophical jurisprudence." 
     Formerly, we are told, "equity imposed moral limitations.  The
     law to-day is beginning to impose social limitations." Harv.
     Law Rev. 27, 227.

  Thus our law to-day is giving up its deductions from juristic
conceptions, from the "body of rules" upon which trial procedure
has so largely rested, and is beginning to study the condition
given with the aim of reaching the law of that condition.  Mr.
Pound says distinctly that law is to be no longer based on first
principles, but on "the conditions it is to govern."  And we are
told that "Mr. Justice Holmes has been unswerving in his resistance
to any doctrinaire interpretation," that his decisions follow the
actual conditions of life even often against his own bias of
thought [2].

     2.  "The Constitutional Opinions of Justice Holmes," by Felix
     Frankfurter, Harv. Law Rev. 29, 683-702.
 
The great value of Mr. Justice Brandeis' brief in the Oregon case
concerning the constitutionality of limiting the hours of women in
industry, was his insistence upon social facts.  And Mr. Felix
Frankfurter made an address before the American Bar Association in
August, 1915, the burden of which was that "law must follow life." 
His plea for a "creative" system of law in the place of the
crystallized system of the past which we are trying with hopeless
failure to apply to present conditions points the way with force
and convincingness to a New Society based on the evolving not the
static principles of life.

  As our theory of the state no longer includes the idea of
contractual obligation, we begin to see the interdependence of
state and law, that neither is prior to the other.  The same
process which evolves the state evolves the law.  Law flows from
our life, therefore it cannot be above it.  The source of the
binding power of law is not in the consent of the community, but in
the fact that it has been produced by the community.  This gives us
a new conception of law.  Some writers talk of social justice as if
a definite idea of it existed, and that all we have to do to
regenerate society is to direct our efforts towards the realization
of this ideal.  But the ideal of social justice is itself a
collective and a progressive development, that is, it is produced
through our associated life and it is produced anew from day to
day.  We do not want a "perfect" law to regulate the hours of women
in industry; we want that kind of life which will make us, all of
us, grow the best ideas about the hours of women in industry, about
women in industry, about women, about industry.

  We cannot assume that we posses a body of achieved ideas stamped
in some mysterious way with the authority of reason and justice,
but even were it true, the reason and justice of the past must give
way to the reason justice of the present.  You cannot bottle up
wisdom -- it won't keep -- but through our associated life it may
be distilled afresh at every instant.  We are coming now to see
indeed that law is a social imperative in the strict psychological
sense, that is, that it gets its authority through the power of
group life.  Wundt says, The development of law is a process of the
psychology of peoples, therefore law will forever be a process of
becoming [1].

     1.  Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Harv. Law Rev. 25, 505.

Our obedience to law then must not be obedience to past law, but
obedience to that law which we with all the experience of the past
at our command, with all the vision of the future which the past
has taught us, with all the intelligence which vivid living in the
present has developed in us, are able to make for our generation,
for our country, for the world.  We are told that one of the most
salient points in modern juristic thinking is its faith in the
efficacy of effort, its belief that law has been and may be made
consciously.

  When we look upon law as a thing we think of it as a finished
thing; the moment we look upon it as a process we think of it
always in evolution.  Our law must take account of our social and
economic conditions, and it must do it again to-morrow and again
day after to-morrow.  We do not want a new legal system with every
sunrise, but we do want a method by which our law shall be capable
of assimilating from day to day what it needs to act upon that life
from which it has drawn its existence and to which it must
minister.  The vital fluid of the community, its life's blood, must
pass so continuously from the common will to the law and from the
law to the common will that a perfect circulation will be
established.  We do not "discover" legal principles which it then
behooves us to burn candles before forever, but legal principles
are the outcome of our daily life.  Our law therefore cannot be
based on "fixed" principles: our law must be intrinsic in the
social process.

  There has been a distinction made between legal principles and
the application of these principles: legal principles partook of
the nature of the absolute, and to our high-priests, the lawyers,
fell the privilege of applying them.  But this is an artificial
distinction.  If our methods could be such that the energy of
lawyers, which now often goes in making the concrete instance and
the legal principle in some way (by fiction, or twisting, or
"interpreting") fit each other, could help evolve day by day a
crescent law which is the outcome of our life as it is to be
applied to our life, an enormous amount of energy would be saved
for the development of our American people.  It is static law and
our reverence for legal abstractions which has produced
"privilege."  It is dynamic law, as much as anything else, which
will bring us the new social order.

  To sum up: Law should not be a "body" of knowledge; it should be
revitalized anew at every moment.  Our judges cannot administer law
by knowing law alone.  They have to be so closely in touch with a
living, growing society, so at one with the conceptions that are
being evolved by that society that their interpretations will be
the method by which our so-called "body of law" shall indeed be
alive and grow in correspondence with the growth of society.  This
is what gives to our American supreme courts their large powers,
and makes us choose for judges not only men who understand law and
who can be trusted for accurate interpretation, but men who have a
large comprehension of our country's needs, wide conceptions of
social justice, and who have creative minds -- who can make legal
interpretations contribute to the structure of our government [1].

     1.  It has been proposed that we should have trained business
     men on the benches of our supreme courts as well as lawyers. 
     I should think it would be better for our lawyers to be so
     conversant with social facts that this need not be necessary.

The modern lawyer must see, amidst all the complexity of the
twentieth-century world, where we are tending, what our true
purpose is, and the part law can take in making manifest that
purpose.  The modern lawyer must create a new system of service. 
A living law we demand to-day -- this is always the law of the
given condition, never a "rule."
