THE NEW STATEby Mary Parker FollettThe Neighborhood Group: Chapter XXIINeighborhood Needs The Basis of PoliticsPOLITICS are changing in character: shall the change be withoutplan or method, or is this the guiding moment?   We are at a critical hour in our history. We have long thought ofpolitics as entirely outside our daily life manipulated by thoseset apart for the purpose.  The methods by which the party platformis constructed are not those which put into it the real issuesbefore the public; the tendency is to put in what will electcandidates or to cover up the real issues by generalities. But justso long as we separate politics and our daily life, just so longshall we have all our present evils. Politics can no longer be anextra-activity of the American people, they must be a means ofsatisfying our actual wants.   We are now beginning to recognize more and more clearly that thework we do, the conditions of that work, the houses in which welive, the water we drink, the food we eat, the opportunities forbringing up our children, that in fact the whole area of our dailylife should constitute politics. There is no line where the life ofthe home ends and the life of the city begins. There is no wallbetween my private life and my public life. A man I know tells methat he "wouldn't touch politics with a ten-foot pole," but how canhe help touching politics? He may not like the party game, butpolitics shape the life he leads from hour to hour. When this isonce understood no question in history will seem more astonishingthan the one so often reiterated in these days, "Should woman begiven a place in politics?"  Woman _is_ in politics; no power underthe sun can put her out.   Politics then must satisfy the needs of the people. What are theneeds of the people?  Nobody knows. We know the supposed needs ofcertain classes, of certain "interests"; these can never be woveninto the needs of the people. Further back we must go, down intothe actual life from which all these needs spring, down into thedaily, hourly living with all its innumerable cross currents, withall its longings and heart-burnings, with its envies and jealousiesperhaps, with its unsatisfied desires, its embryonic aspirations,and its power, manifest or latent, for endeavor and accomplishment.The needs of the people are not now articulate: they loom out ofthe darkness, vague, big, portentously big, but dumb because of theseparation of men. To open up this hinterland of our life the crosscurrents now burrowing under ground must come to the surface and beopenly acknowledged.  We work, we spend most of our waking hours working for some oneof whose life we know nothing, who knows nothing of us; we pay rentto a landlord whom we never see or see only once a month, and yetour home is our most precious possession; we have a doctor who iswith us in the crucial moments of birth and death, but whom weordinarily do not meet; we buy our food, our clothes, our fuel, ofautomatons for the selling of food, clothes and fuel. We know allthese people in their occupational capacity, not as men likeourselves with hearts like ours, desires like ours, hopes likeours. And this isolation from those who minister to our lives, towhose lives we minister, does not bring us any nearer to ourneighbors in their isolation. For every two or three of us thinkour-selves a little better than every other two or three, and thisbecomes a dead wall of separation, of misunderstanding, ofantagonism. How can we do away with this artificial separationwhich is the dry-rot of our life? First we must realize that eachhas something to give. Every man comes to us with a golden gift inhis heart. Do we dare, therefore, avoid any man? If I stay bymyself on my little self-made pedestal, I narrow myself down to myown personal equation of error. If I go to all my neighbors, my ownlife increases in multiple measure. The aim of each of us should beto live in the lives of all. Those fringes which connect my lifewith the life of every other human being in the world are theinlets by which the central forces flow into me. I am a worselawyer, a worse teacher, a worse doctor if I do not know thesewider contacts.  Let us seek then those bonds which unite us withevery other life. Then do we find reality, only in union, never inisolation.   But it must be a significant union, never a mere coming together. How we waste immeasureable force in much of our social life in amere tossing of the ball, on the merest externality and travesty ofa common life which we do not penetrate for the secret at itsheart. The quest of life and the meaning of life is reality. We mayflit on the surface as gnats in the sunlight, but in each of us,however overlaid, is the hunger and thirst for realness, forsubstance. We must plunge down to find our treasure. The core of aworthy associated life is the call of reality to reality, thecalling and answering and the bringing it forth from the depthsforever more and more. To go to meet our fellows is to go out andlet the winds of Heaven blow upon us - we throw ourselves open toevery breath and current which spring from this meeting of life'svital forces.   Some of us are looking for the remedy for our fatal isolation ina worthy and purposeful neighborhood life. Our proposal is thatpeople should organize themselves into neighborhood groups toexpress their daily life, to bring to the surface the needs,desires and aspirations of that life, that these needs shouldbecome the substance of politics, and that these neighborhoodgroups should become the recognized political unit.  Let us consider some of the advantages of the neighborhood group.First, it makes possible the association of neighbors, which meansfuller acquaintance and a more real understanding.  The task ofcreation from electrons up is putting self in relation. Is man theonly one who refuses this task? I do not know my next-doorneighbor! One of the most unfortunate circumstances of our largetowns is that we expect concerted action from people who arestrangers to one another. So mere acquaintance is the firstessential. This will lead inevitably to friendly feeling.The story is told of some American official who begged not to beintroduced to a political enemy, for he said he could not hate anyone with whom he became acquainted. We certainly do feel morekindly to the people we actually see. It is what has been called"the pungent sense of effective reality." Neighborhood organizationwill substitute confidence for suspicion - a great gain.   Moreover, neighborhood organization gives opportunity forconstant and regular intercourse.  We are indeed far moreinterested in humanity than ever before. Look at what we arestudying: social psychology, social economics, social medicine andhygiene, social ethics etc. But people must socialize their livesby practice, not by study. Until we begin to acquire the habit ofa social life no theory of a social life will do us any good. It isa mistake to think that such abstractions as unity, brotherhoodetc. are as self-evident to our wills as to our intellect.  Ilearn my duty to my friends not by reading essays on friendship,but by living my life with my friends and learning by experiencethe obligations friendship demands. Just so must I learn myrelation to society by coming into contact with a wide range ofexperiences, of people, by cultivating and deepening my sympathyand whole understanding of life.   When we have come together and got acquainted with one another,then we shall have an opportunity for learning the rules of thegame - the game of association which is the game of life.  Certainorganizations have sprung up since 1914 with the avowed object offighting war with love. If only we knew how to love! I am ready tosay to you this minute, "I love my neighbors." But all that I meanby it is that I have a vague feeling of kindliness towards them. I have no idea how to do the actual deed. I shall offend againstthe law of love within an hour. The love of our fellow-men to beeffective must be the love evolved from some actual group relation.We talk of fellowship; we, puny separatists bristling with athousand unharmonized traits, with our assertive particularistconsciousness, think that all we have to do is to decide onfellowship as a delightful idea. But fellowship will be the slowestthing on earth to create. An eager longing for it may help, but itcan come into being as a genuine part of our life only through adeep understanding of what it really means.   Yet association is the impulse at the core of our being. Thewhole social process is that of association, individual withindividual, group with group. Progress from one point of view is acontinuously widening of the area of association.  Our moderncivilization has simply overlaid and falsified this primaryinstinct of life. But this is rapidly changing.  The most strikingcharacteristic of the present day is that people are doing morethings together: they are coming together as never before inlabor organizations, in cooperative societies, in consumers'leagues, in associations of employers and employed, in municipalmovements, for national purposes, etc. etc. We have the Men's CityClub, the Women's City Club; professional societies are multiplyingover night. The explanation sometimes given for this presenttendency towards union is that we are beginning to see the materialadvantages of cooperation, but the root of the thing is far fromutilitarian advantage. Our happiness, our sense of living at all,is directly dependent on our joining with others. We are lost,exiled, imprisoned until we feel the joy of union.   I believe that the realization of oneness which will come to uswith a fuller sense of democracy, with a deeper sense of our commonlife, is going to be the substitute for what men now get in war. Some psychologists tell us that fighting is one of the fundamentalinstincts, and that if we do not have war we shall have all thedangers of thwarted instinct. But the lure of war is neither theinstinct of hate nor the love of fighting; it is the joining of onewith another in a common purpose. "And the heart of a people beatwith one desire." Many men have gone joyfully to war because itgave them fellowship. I said to some one that I thought the reasonwar was still popular in spite of all its horrors was because ofour lack of imagination, we simply could not realize war. "No,"said the man I spoke to, "I know war, I know its horrors, and thereason that in spite of it all men like war is because there we aredoing something all together.  That is its exhilaration and why wecan't give it up. We come home and each leads his separate life andit seems tame and uninteresting merely on that account, the deadlyseparateness of our ordinary life."   When we want a substitute for war, therefore, we need not seekfor a substitute for fighting or for hating; we must find some wayof making ourselves feel at one with some portion of our fellow-creatures. If the essential characteristic of war is doing thingstogether, let us begin to do things together in peace. Yet not anartificial doing things together, we could so easily fall intothat, but an entire reorganization of life so that the doing thingstogether shall be the natural way the way we shall all want to dothings.  But mere association is not enough. We need more than the"collective life," the mere "getting-together," so much talked ofin these days; our getting together must be made effective, mustexercise our minds and wills as well as our emotions, must servethe great ends of a great life. Neighborhood organization gives allan opportunity to learn the technique of association.   A further advantage of neighborhood organization is that as amember of a neighborhood group we get a fuller and more varied lifethan as a member of any other kind of a group we can find, nomatter how big our city or how complex or comprehensive itsinterests. This statement sounds paradoxical - it will seem to manylike saying that the smaller is greater than the larger. Let usexamine this statement therefore and see if perhaps in this casethe smaller is not greater than the larger.  Why is theneighborhood group better for us than the selected group?  Why areprovincial people more interesting than cosmopolitan, that is, ifprovincial people have taken advantage of _their_ opportunities?Because cosmopolitan people are all alike - that has been the aimof their existence and they have accomplished it. The man who knowsthe "best" society of Petrograd, Paris, London and New York, andthat only, is a narrow man because the ideals and standards of the"best" society of London, Paris and New York are the same. He knowslife across but not down - it is a horizontal civilization insteadof a vertical one, with all the lack of depth and height ofeverything horizontal. This man has always been among the same kindof people, his life has not been enlarged and enriched by thefriction of ideas and ideals which comes from the meetingof people of different opportunities and different tastes anddifferent standards.  But this is just what we may have in aneighborhood group - different education, different interests,different standards. Think of the doctor, the man who runs thefactory, the organist and choir leader, the grocer, the minister,the watchmaker, the school-teacher, all living within a few blocksof one another.  On the other hand consider how different it iswhen we _choose_ the constituents of our group - then we choosethose who are the same as ourselves in some particular. We have theauthors' club, the social workers' club, the artists' club, theactors' society, the business men's club, the business women'sclub, the teachers' club etc. [1]. The satisfaction and contentmentthat comes with sameness indicates a meager personality. I go tothe medical association to meet doctors, I go to my neighborhoodclub to meet men.  It is just because my next door neighbor hasnever been to college that he is good for me. The stenographer maycome to see that her life is really richer from getting the factorygirl's point of view.     1. This movement to form societies based on our occupations is     of course, although usually unconscious, part of the whole        syndicalist movement, and as such has real advantages which     will be taken up later.   In a neighborhood group you have the stimulus and the bracingeffect of many different experiences and ideals. And in thisinfinite variety which touches you on every side, you have a lifewhich enriches and enlarges and fecundates; this is the true soilof human development - just because you have here a natural and notan artificial group, the members find all that is necessary inorder to grow into that whole which is true community living.  Many young men and women think as they come to the teeming citiesthat there they are to find the fuller life they have longed for,but often the larger our world the narrower we become, for wecannot face the vague largeness, and so we join a clique of peopleas nearly like ourselves as we can find.   In so far, therefore, as neighborhoods are the result of someselective process, they are not so good for our purpose.  TheItalian colony or the Syrian colony does not give us the bestmaterial for group organization, neither does any occupationalsegregation like the stockyard district of Chicago.  (This is anargument against the industrial colonies which are spreading.) Ina more or less mixed neighborhood, people of differentnationalities or different classes come together easily andnaturally on the ground of many common interests: the school,recreational opportunities, the placing of their children inindustry, hygiene, housing etc. Race and class prejudices arebroken down by working together for intimate objects.   Whenever I speak of neighborhood organization to my friends,those who disagree with me at once become violent on the subject.I have never understood why it inflames them more easily than othertopics.  They immediately take it for granted that I am proposingto shut them up tight in their neighborhoods and seal themhermetically; they assume that I mean to substitute theneighborhood for every other contact.  They tell me of thepettiness of neighborhood life, and I have to listen to stories ofneighbor hood iniquities ranging from small gossip to determinedboycotting.  Intolerance and narrowness thrive in the neighborhoodgroup they say; in the wider group they do not. But I am notproposing to substitute the neighborhood group for others, yet evenso I should like to say a word for the neighborhood.   We may like some selected group better than the company of ourneighbors, but such a group is no "broader" necessarily, because itdraws from all over the city, than a local one. You can have narrowinterests as well as narrow spaces.  Neighbors may, it is true,discuss the comings and goings of the family down the street, butI have heard people who are not neighbors discuss equally trivialsubjects.  But supposing that non-neighborhood groups are lesspetty in the sense of less personal in their conversation, they areoften also less real, and this is an important point. If I dress inmy best clothes and go to another part of the city and take all mybest class of conversation with me, I don't know that it does meany good if I am the same person who in my every-day clothes goesin next door and talks slander. What I mean is that the only placein the world where we can change ourselves is on that level wherewe are real. And what is forgotten by my friends who thinkneighborhood life trivial is that (according to their own argument)it is the same people who talk gossip in their neighborhoods whoare impersonal and noble in another part of the city.  Moreover, if we are happier away from our neighborhood it wouldbe well for us to analyze the cause - there may be a worthy reason,there may not. Is it perhaps that one does not get as muchconsideration there as one thinks one's due? Have we perhaps, ledby our vanity, been drawn to those groups where we get the mostconsideration? My neighbors may not think much of me because Ipaint pictures, knowing that my back yard is dirty, but my artistfriends who like my color do not know or care about my backyard. My neighbors may feel no admiring awe of my scientificresearches knowing that I am not the first in the house of aneighbor in trouble.   You may reply, "But this is not my case. I am one of the mostesteemed people in my neighborhood and one of the lowest in theCity Club, but I prefer the latter just because of that: there isroom for me to aspire there, but where I am leading what is therefor me to grow toward, how can I expand in such an atmosphere?" ButI should say that this also might be a case of vanity; possiblythese people prefer the City Club because they do not like to thinkthey have found their place in life in what they consider aninferior group; it flatters them more to think that they belong toa superior group even if they occupy the lowest place there.  Butthe final word to be said is I think that this kind of seekingimplies always the attitude of getting, almost as bad as theattitude of conferring. It is extremely salutary to take our placein a neighborhood group.   Then, too, that does not always do us most good which we enjoymost, as we are not always progressing most when thrills go up anddown our spine.  We may have a selected group feeling "good," butthat is not going to make us good. That very homogeneity which wenestle down into and in which we find all the comfort of a downpillow, does not provide the differences in which alone we cangrow.  We must know the finer enjoyment of recognized diversity.  It must be noted, however, that while it is not proposed that theneighborhood association be substituted for other forms ofassociation - trade-union, church societies, fraternal societies,local improvement leagues, cooperative societies, men's clubs,women's clubs etc. - yet the hope is that it shall not be one moreassociation merely, but that it shall be the means of coordinatingand translating into community values other local groups. Theneighborhood association might become a very mechanical affair ifwe were all to go there every evening and go nowhere else.  It mustnot with its professed attempt to give a richer life cut off thevariety and spontaneity we now have.   But the trouble now is that we have so much unrelated variety, somuch unutilized spontaneity.  The small merchant of a neighborhoodmeets with the other small dealers for business purposes, he goesto church on Sundays, he gets his social intercourse at his lodgeor club, but where and when does he consider any possibleintegration of these into channels for community life?  At hispolitical rally, to be sure, he meets his neighbors irrespective ofbusiness or church or social lines, but there he comes under partydomination. A free, full community life lived within the sustainingand nourishing power of the community bond, lived for communityends, is almost unknown now.  This will not come by substitutingthe neighborhood group for other groups, not even by using it as aclearing-house, but by using it as a medium for interpretation andunofficial integration.   There should be as much spontaneous association as the vitalityof the neighborhood makes possible, but other groups may perhapsfind their significance and coordination through the neighborhoodassociation.  If a men's or women's club is of no use to thecommunity it should not exist; if it is of use, it must find out ofwhat use, how related to all other organizations, how through andwith them related to the whole community. The lawyers' club, theteachers' club, the trade association or the union - these can havelittle influence on their community until they discover theirrelation to the community through and in one another. I have seenmany examples of this.  If the neighborhood group is to be thepolitical unit, it must learn how to gather up into significantcommunity expression these more partial expressions of individualwants.   It is sometimes said that the force of the neighborhood bond islessening now-a-days with the ease of communication, but this istrue only for the wealthy. The poor cannot afford constantly to bepaying the ten-cent carfare necessary to leave and return to theirhomes, nor the more well-to-do of the suburbs the twenty or twenty-five cents it costs them to go to the city and back. Thefluctuating population of neighborhoods may be an argument againstgetting all we should like out of the neighborhood bond, but at thesame time it makes it all the more necessary that some organizationshould be ready at hand to assimilate the new-comers and give theman opportunity of sharing in civic life as an integral, responsiblepart of that life. Moreover a neighborhood has common traditionsand memories which persist and influence even although thepersonnel changes.  To sum up: whether we want the exhilaration of a fuller life orwhether we want to find the unities which will make for peace andorder, for justice and for righteousness, it would be wise to turnback to the neighborhood group and there begin the a b c of aconstructive brotherhood of man. We must recognize that too muchcongeniality makes for narrowness, and that the harmonizing, notthe ignoring, of our differences leads us to the truth. Neighborhood organization gives us the best opportunity we have yetdiscovered of finding the unity underneath all our differences,the real bond between them - of living the consciously creativelife.   We can never reform American politics from above, by reformassociations, by charters and schemes of government. Our politicalforms will have no vitality unless our political life is soorganized that it shall be based primarily and fundamentally onspontaneous association. "Government is a social contact," wasfound in the examination papers of a student in a near-by college.He was nearer the truth than he knew. Political progress must be bylocal communities.  Our municipal life will be just as strong asthe strength of its parts. We shall never know how to be one of anation until we are one of a neighborhood. And what bettertraining for world organization can each man receive than forneighbors to live together not as detached individuals but as atrue community, for no League of Nations will be successful whichregards France and Germany, England and Russia as separatist unitsof a world-union.   Those who are working for particular reforms to be accomplishedimmediately will not be interested in neighborhood organization;only those will be interested who think that it is far moreimportant for us to find the right method of attacking all ourproblems than to solve any one. We who believe in neighborhoodorganization believe that the neighborhood group is a moresignificant unit to identify ourselves with than any we havehitherto known in cities. People have been getting together inchurches, in fraternal societies, in political parties, inindustrial and commercial associations, but now in addition tothese partial groups communities are to get together ascommunities.   The neighborhood organization movement is not waiting for idealinstitutions, or perfect men, but is finding whatever creativeforces there are within a community and taking these and buildingthe future with them. The neighborhood organization movement is aprotest against both utopias on the one hand and a mechanicalizedhumanity on the other. It consists of the process of buildingalways with the best we have, and its chief problem is to discoverthe methods by which the best we have can be brought to thesurface. Neighborhood organization gives us a method which willrevolutionize politics. 