THE NEW STATEBy Mary Parker FollettThe Neighborhood Group:Chapter XXIVNeighborhood Organization vs. Party OrganizationThe Will of The PeopleMANY of us are feeling strongly at the present moment theimportance of neighborhood life, the importance of the developmentof a neighborhood consciousness, the paramount importance ofneighborhood organization as the most effective means of solvingour city and national problems. What our political life needsto-day is to get at the will of the people and to incorporate it inour government, to substitute a man-governed country for amachine-governed country. If politics are to be no longermysterious and remote, but the warp and woof of our lives, if theyare to be neither a game nor a business, far different methods mustbe adopted from any we have hitherto known.  Where do we show political vitality at present? In ourgovernment? In our party organization?  In our local communities? We can see nowhere any clear stream of political life. The vitalityof our community life is frittered away or unused. The muddy streamof party politics is choked with personal ambition, the desire forpersonal gain. Neighborhood organization is, I believe, to be thevital current of our political life. There is a wide-spread ideathat we can do away with the evils of the party system by attackingthe boss. Many think also that all would be well if we couldseparate politics and business. But far below the surface are theforces which have allied business and politics; far below thesurface we must go, therefore, if we would divorce this badly matedcouple.  Neighborhood organization is to accomplish many things. The mostimportant are: to give a knock-out blow to party organization, tomake a direct and continuous connection between our daily lives andneeds and our government, to diminish race and class prejudices, tocreate a responsible citizenship, and to train and discipline thenew democracy; or, to sum up all these things, to break down partyorganization and to make a creative citizenship the force ofAmerican political life.  An effective neighborhood organization will deal the death blowto party: (1) by substituting a real unity for the pseudo unity ofparty, by creating a genuine public opinion, a true will of thepeople [1], (2) by evolving genuine leaders instead of bosses, (3)by putting a responsible government in the place of theirresponsible party.     1 Public opinion in a true democracy is a potential will.     Therefore for practical purposes they are identical and I use     them synonymously.  First, there is at present no real unity of the people.   It is clear that party organization has succeeded because it wasthe only way we knew of bringing about concerted action. This mustbe obtained by the manipulation of other men's minds or by theevolving of the common mind; we must choose between the two.  Inthe past the monarch got his power from the fact that herepresented the unity of his people -- the tribal or nationalconsciousness. In the so-called democracies of England and Americawe have now no one man who represents a true collectiveconsciousness. Much of the power of party has come, therefore, fromthe fact that it gave expression to a certain kind of pseudocollective consciousness: we found that it was impossible to get acommon will from a multitude, the only way we could get any unitywas through the party. We have accepted party dictatorship ratherthan anarchy. We have felt that any discussion of partyorganization was largely doctrinaire because party has given uscollective action of a kind, and what has been offered in its placewas a scattered and irresponsible, and therefore weak andineffective, particularism.  No "independent" method of voting canever vie with the organized party machinery: its loose unintegratednebulosity will be shattered into smithereens by the impact of theclosely organized machine.  The problem which many men have wrestled with in their lives --whether they are to adhere to party or to be "independent" -- isfutile. Personal honesty exhausts no man's duty in life; aneffective life is what is demanded of us, and no isolated honestygives us social effectiveness. When we go up to the gates ofanother world and say, "I have been honest, I have been pure, Ihave been diligent" -- no guardian of those Heavenly gates willfling them open for us, but we shall be faced with the counterthrust: "How have you used those qualities for making blossom theearth which was your inheritance? We want no sterile virtues here. Have you sold your inheritance for the pottage of personal purity,personal honesty, personal growth?"  To make our "independence" effective, to vie success-fully withparty organization, we must organize genuine groups and learn inthose true collective action. No particularistic theory of politicswill ever be strong enough to take the place of party. Thepolitical consciousness of men must be transferred from the partyto the neighborhood group.  We hear discussed from time to time how far public opiniongoverns the world, but at present there is no public opinion. Ourlegislatures are supposed to enact the will of the people, ourcourts are supposed to declare the will of the people, ourexecutive to voice the will of the people, a will surrounding menlike a nimbus apparently from their births on. But there is no willof the people [1]. We talk glibly about it but the truth is that itis such a very modern thing that it does not yet exist. There is,it is true, an overwhelming chaos of ideas on all the problemswhich surround us.  Is this public opinion? The urge of the crowdoften gets crystallized into a definite policy ardently advocated.Is this public opinion?  Certain interests find a voice; one partyor another, one group or another, expresses itself. Is this publicopinion? Public opinion is that common understanding which is thedriving force of a living whole and shapes the life of that whole.     1. Our federal system of checks and balances thwarted the will     of the people. The party system thwarted the will of the     people. Our state governments were never designed to get at     the will of the people.  We believe that the state should be the incarnation of the commonwill, but where is the common will? All the proposed new devicesfor getting at the will of the people (referendum etc.) assume thatwe have a will to express; but our great need at present is not toget a chance to express our wonderful ideas, but to get somewonderful ideas to express. A more complete representation is theaim of much of our political reform, but our first requirement issurely to have something to represent.  It isn't that we need onekind of government more than another, as the image-breakers tellus, it isn't that we need honest intentions, as the preachers tellus, our essential and vital need is a people creating a will of itsown. In all the sentimental talk of democracy the will of thepeople is spoken of tenderly as if it were there in all its wisdomand all its completeness and we had only to put it into operation.  The tragic thing about our situation in America is, not merelythat we have no public opinion, but that we think we have. If Ihave no money in my pocket and know it, I can go to work and earnsome; if I do not know it I may starve. But I do not want theAmerican people to starve. The average American citizen says tohimself, "It doesn't matter very much what I think because Americanpublic opinion is sound at the core. It is our Great Illusion.There has been much apotheosizing of the so-called popular will,but not every circle is a halo, and you can't put a wreath round"the popular will" and call it democracy. The popular will to meandemocracy must be a properly evolved popular will -- the true willof the people.  Who are the people? Every individual? The majority?  Atheoretical average?  A compromise group? The reason we go astrayabout public opinion is because we have not as yet a clear andadequate definition of the "people." We are told that we mustelevate the "people." There are no "people." We have to create apeople. The people are not an imaginary average, shorn of geniusand power and leadership. You cannot file off all the points madeby talent and efficiency, and call the dead level that is left thepeople. The people are the integration of every development, ofevery genius, with everything else that our complex and interactinglife brings about. But the method of such integration can never bethrough crowd association. We may come to think that vox populi isvox Dei, but not until it is the group voice, not until it is foundby some more intimate process than listening to the shout of thecrowd or counting the votes in the ballot-box.  The error in regard to public opinion can be traced to that samesociological error which is the cause of so many confusions in ourpolitical thought: that the social process is the spread ofsimilarities by suggestion and imitation. Any opinion that isshared, simply because it is shared, is called public opinion. Butif this opinion is shared because it has spread among large numbersby "unconscious imitation," then it is not a genuine publicopinion; to be that, the process by which it has been evolved mustbe that of intermingling and interpermeating. Public opinion hasbeen defined as the opinions of all the men on the "tops ofbusses," or the opinion made by "banks, stock-exchanges and all thewire-pullers of the world," or the opinion "imposed on the publicby a succession of thinkers." All this is, no doubt, true of muchof our so-called public opinion at present, for public opinionto-day is largely crowd opinion.  But there is less of this thanformerly. And we must adopt those modes of living by which thereshall be less and less infection of crowds and more and more anevolving of genuine group thought. When reforms are brought aboutby crowds being swept into them, they can be undone just as easily;there is no real progress here.  Political parties and business interests will continue todominate us until we learn new methods of association.  Men followparty dictates not because of any worship of party but simplybecause they have not yet any will of their own. Until they have,they will be used and manipulated and artificially stimulated bythose who can command sufficient money to engage leaders for thatpurpose. Hypnosis will be our normal state until we are roused toclaim our own creative power. The promise for the future is thepower for working together which lies latent in the great rank andfile of men and women to-day, and which must be brought clearly totheir view and utilized in the right way. If we see no fruitfulfuture for our political life under the present scheme of partydomination, if we can see no bearable future for our industriallife under the present class domination, then some plan must bedevised for the will of the people to control the life of thepeople. Fighting abuses is not our role, but the full understandingthat such fighting is a tilting at wind-mills.  The abuses inthemselves amount to nothing. Our role is to leave them alone andbuild up our own life with our power of creative citizenship. Weneed to-day: (1) an active citizenship, (2) a responsiblecitizenship, (3) a creative citizenship -- a citizenship buildingits own world, creating its own political and social structure,constructing its own life forever.  Our faith in democracy rests ultimately on the belief that menhave this creative power. Our vital relation to the Infiniteconsists in our capacity, as its generating force, to bring fortha group idea, to create the common life. But we have at present nomachinery for a constructive life. The organization of neighborhoodgroups will give us this machinery.  Let us see how neighborhood groups can create a united will, agenuine public opinion.  First, neighborhood groups will naturally discuss their local,intimate, personal concerns. The platitudes and insincerities ofthe party meeting will give way to the homely realities of theneighborhood meeting.  These common interests will become thepolitical issues. Then, and not till then, politics, external at nopoint to any vital need, will represent the life of our people.Then when we see clearly that the affairs of city and state are ouraffairs, we shall no longer be apathetic or indifferent in regardto politics. We all are interested in our own affairs.  When ourdaily needs become the basis of politics, then party will no longerbe left in control because politics bore us, because we feel thatthey have nothing to do with us.  Already the daily lives of people are passing into the area ofgovernment through the increased social legislation of all ourstates during the last few years. In 1912 a national party wasorganized with social legislation as part of its platform. Theintroduction of social pro-grams into party platforms means that apowerful influence is at work to change American politics from amachine to a living thing. When the political questions werechiefly the tariff, the trust, the currency, closely as thesequestions affected the lives of people, there was so little generalknowledge in regard to them that most of us could contribute littleto their solution. The social legislation of the last few years hastaken up crime, poverty, disease, which we all know a great dealabout: laws have been passed regarding child labor, workmen'scompensation, occupational disease, prison reform, tuberculosis,mothers' pensions, the liquor question, minimum wage, employmentagencies etc.  Tammany is built up on the most intimate local work: no family,no child, is unknown to its organization. And it is founded on thelong view: votes are not crudely bought -- always; the boy is founda job, the father is helped through his illness, the worn-outmother is sent for a holiday to the country. As politics comes tomean state employment bureaus, sickness and accident insurance,mothers' pensions, Tammany is being shorn of much of its power.  We are sometimes told, however, that while it is conceded thatcampaign issues should be made up from our intimate, everydayneeds, yet it is feared that on each question a different splitwould come, and thus politics would be too confusing and could notbe "handled." Neighborhood organization is going to help us meetthis difficulty. In non-partisan neighborhood associations we shallhave different alignments on every question. Moreover, we shallhave different alignments on the same question in different years.Thus the rigidity of the party organization disappears.  The partymeeting is to the neighborhood meeting what the victrola is to thehuman voice: the partisan assembly utters what has been impressedupon it, you hear the machine beating its own rhythm; theneighborhood meeting will give the fresh ever-varied voices fromthe hearts of men. The party system and the genuine group system isthe difference between machine-made and man-made. And this may betrue of a good government organization as well as of a Tammanyorganization -- it is true wherever the machine is put above theman. We can get no force without freshness, and you cannot getfreshness from a machine, only from living men. Just the very thingwhich costs the party money -- keeping its members together -- isits condemnation. Men will make up their minds on question afterquestion in their neighborhood groups. Then they will voteaccording to these conclusions. Party dictation will never ceaseuntil we get group conviction. If our political life is going toshow any greater sensitiveness to our real wants and needs than ithas shown in the past, there must be some provision made forconsidering and voting on questions irrespective of party: you cannot join a different party every day, but you can separatepolitical issues from partisanship and vote for the thing you want. The reason more of our real wants have not got expressed in ourpolitics is just because people cannot be held together on manyissues.  Again, if neighborhood organization takes the place of partyorganization each question can be decided on its own merit: weshall not have to ask, "How will the management of this affect thepower and prestige of our party?"  Also neighborhood groups can study problems, but the study ofproblems is fatal to party organization. The party hands out theephemeral comings-to-the-surface of what will help the party, orthe particularistic interests dominating the party. Every questionbrought forward at all is brought forward as a campaign issue.  Moreover the group discovers and conserves the individual. Aparty gathering is always a crowd. And party methods arestereotyped, conventional. Under a party system we have nospontaneous political life.  The party system gives no exercise tothe judgment, it weakens the will, it does away with personalresponsibility.  The party, as the crowd, blots out the individual. Mass suggestion is dominating our politics to-day. We shall get ridof mass influence exactly as fast as we develop the groupconsciousness. Men who belong to neighborhood organizations willnot be the stuff of which parties are made. The party has preventedus from having genuine group opinion; or if we do by any chance geta group opinion now, it can usually speak only in opposition toparty, it cannot get incorporated in our political life.  Every one of us will have an opportunity to learn collectivethinking in the small, local, neighborhood group. No one comes tohis neighborhood group pledged beforehand to any particular way ofthinking.  The object of the party system is to stifle alldifference of opinion. Moreover, in partisan discussion you takeone of two sides; in neighborhood groups an infinitely variednumber of points of view can be brought out, and thus the finaldecision will be richer from what it gains on all sides. Theneighborhood group which makes possible different alignments onevery question, allows ultimate honesty in the expression of ourviews. If we get into the habit of suppressing our differences,these differences atrophy and we lose our sensitiveness to theirdemands. And we have found that the expression and the maintenanceof difference is the condition of the 'full and free development ofthe race.  But we want not only a genuine public opinion, but a progressivepublic opinion. We cannot understand once for all, we must beconstantly understanding anew. At the same time that we see thenecessity of creating the common will and giving voice to it, wemust bear in mind that there should be no crystallizing process bywhich any particular expression of the common will should be takenas eternally right because it is the expression of the common will.It is right for to-day but not for to-morrow. The flaming fact isour daily life, whatever it is, leaping forever and ever out of thecommon will. Democracy is the ever-increasing volume of powerpouring through men and shaping itself as the moment demands.Constitutional conventions are seeking the machinery by which thereason and justice which have existed among us can be utilized inour life. We must go beyond this and unseal the springs which willreveal the forms for the wisdom and justice of their day. This islife itself, the direct and aboriginal constructor. We meet withour neighbors at our civic club not in order to accumulate facts,but to learn how to release and how to control a constructive forcewhich will build daily for us the habitation of our needs. Thenindeed will our government be no longer directed by a "body oflaw," but by the self-renewing appearing of the will of the people.  The chief need of society to-day is an enlightened, progressiveand organized public opinion, and the first step towards anenlightened and organized public opinion is an enlightened andorganized group opinion. When public opinion becomes conscious ofitself it will have a justified confidence in itself. Then the"people," born of an associated life, will truly govern. Then shallwe at last really have an America.