THE NEW STATEBy May Parker FollettThe Occupational Group:Chapter XXIXPolitical Pluralism and SovereigntyWHAT does group psychology teach us, as far as we at presentunderstand it, in regard to sovereignty?  How does the group getits power?  By each one giving up his sovereignty? Never. By someone from outside presenting it with authority? No, although that isthe basis of much of our older legal theory. Real authority inheresin a genuine whole.  The individual is sovereign over himself asfar as he unifies the heterogeneous elements of his nature. Twopeople are sovereign over themselves as far as they are capable ofcreating one out of two. A group is sovereign over itself as far asit is capable of creating one out of several or many. A state issovereign only as it has the power of creating one in which allare. Sovereignty is the power engendered by a completeinterdependence becoming conscious of itself.  Sovereignty is theimperative of a true collective will. It is not something academic,it is produced by actual living with others -- we learn it onlythrough group life. By the subtle process of interpenetration acollective sovereignty is evolved from a distributed sovereignty.Just so can and must, by the law of their being, groups unite toform larger groups, these larger groups to form a world-group.  I have said that many of the pluralists are opposed to themonistic state because they do not see that a collective anddistributive sovereignty can exist together. They talk of the Manyand the One without analyzing the process by which the Many and theOne are creating each other. We now see that the problem of thecompounding of consciousness, of the One and the Many, need not beleft either to an intellectualistic or to an intuitive metaphysics.It is to be solved through a laboratory study of group psychology.When we have that, we shall not have to argue any more about theOne and the Many: we shall actually see the Many and the Oneemerging at the same time; we can then work out the laws of therelation of the One (the state) to the Many (the individual), andof the Many (the individual) to the One (the state), not as ametaphysical question but on a scientific basis. And the process ofthe Many becoming One is the process by which sovereignty iscreated. Our conceptions of sovereignty can no longer rest on mereabstractions, theory, speculative thought. How absurdly inadequatesuch processes are to explain the living, interweaving web ofhumanity.  The question of sovereignty concerns the organization ofmen (which obviously must be fitted to their nature), hence itfinds its answer through the psychological analysis of man.  The seeking of the organs of society which are the immediatesource of legal sanctions, the seeking of the ultimate source ofpolitical control -- these are the quests of jurists and politicalphilosophers.  To their search must be added a study of the processby which a genuine sovereignty is created. The political pluralistsare reacting against the sovereignty which our legal theorypostulates, for they see that there is no such thing actually, butif sovereignty is at present a legal fiction, the matter need notrest there -- we must seek to find how a genuine social andpolitical control can be produced. The understanding ofself-government, of democracy, is bound up with the conception ofsovereignty as a psychological process.  The idea of sovereignty held by guild socialists [1] is basedlargely on the so-called "objective" theory of _le droit_ expoundedby M. Leon Duguit of Bordeaux. This theory is accepted as the"juridical basis" of a new state, what some call the functionariststate [2].  Man, Duguit tells us, has no rights as man, but only asa member of the social order. His rights are based on the fact ofsocial interdependence -- on his relations and consequentobligations. In fact he has no rights, but duties and powers. Allpower and all obligation is found in "social solidarity," in aconstantly evolving social solidarity [3].     1. See writings of Ramiro de Maeztu in New Age and his book     mentioned above.     2. See "Traite de Droit Constitutionnel" and "Etudes de Droit     Public": I, L'Etat, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive; II,     L'Etat, Les Gouvernants and Les Agents.       As in French _droit_ may be either law or a rigat, Duguit,     in order to distinguish between these meanings, follows the     German distinction of _objektives Recht_ and _subjektives     Recht, and speaks of le droit objectif and _le droit     subjectif_, thus meaning by _le droit objectif_ merely law.      But because he at the same time writes of power as resting on     function in contradistinction to the classical theory of the     abstract "rights" of man, rights apart from law and only     declared by law, political writers sometimes speak of Duguit's     "objective" theory of law, as opposed to a "subjective" theory     of law, when jurists would tell us that law is objective, and     that subjective right is always merely a right, my right. This     matter of terminology must be made much clearer than it is at     present.     3. Although how far Duguit had in mind merely the solidarity     of French and Roman law has been questioned.  The elaboration of this theory is Duguit's large contribution topolitical thought.  His _droit_ is a dynamic law -- it can never becaptured and fixed.  The essential weakness of his doctrine is thathe denies the possibility of a collective will, which means that heignores the psychology of the social process. He and his followersreject the notion of a collective will as "_concept de l'espritde'nue de toute re'alite' positive_." If this is their idea of acollective will, they are right to reject it. I ask for itsacceptance only so far as it can be proved to have positivereality.  There is only one way in the world by which you can everknow whether there is a collective will, and that is by actuallytrying to make one; you need not discuss a collective will as atheory.  If experiment proves to us that we cannot have acollective will, we must accept the verdict. Duguit thinks thatwhen we talk of the sovereignty of the people we mean an abstractsovereignty; the new psychology means by the sovereignty of thepeople that which they actually create. It is true that we havenone at present. Duguit is perfectly right in opposing the oldtheory of the "sovereign state."  But Duguit says that if there were a collective will there is noreason why it should impose itself on the individual wills. "_L'affirmat ion que la collectivile a le pouvoir le'gitime decommander force qu'elle est la collectivite", est une affirmationd'ordre me'taphysique ou religieux_. . . ." This in itself shows amisunderstanding of the evolution of a collective will. This schooldoes not seem to understand that every one must contribute to thecollective will; ideally it would have no power unless thishappened, actually we can only be constantly approaching this ideal[1].  Duguit makes a thing-in-itself of _la volonte' nationale_ --it is a most insidious fallacy which we all fall into again andagain. But we can never accept that kind of a collective will. Webelieve in a collective will only so far as it is _really_ formingfrom out our actual daily life of intermingling men and women. There is nothing "metaphysical" or "religious" about this. Duguitsays metaphysics "_doit rester e'tranger a' toute jurisprudence_.. . ." We agree to that and insist that jurisprudence must befounded on social psychology.     1. I have just read in a work on sociology, "Men surrender     their individual wills to the collective will." No, the true     social process is not when they _surrender_ but when they     _contribute_ their wills to the collective will. See chs.     Il-VI, "The Group Process."  Five people produce a collective idea, a collective will. Thatwill becomes at once an imperative upon those five people. It isnot an imperative upon any one else. On the other hand no one elsecan make imperatives for those five people. It has been generatedby the social process which is a self-sufficing, all-inclusiveprocess. The same process which creates the collective will createsat the same time the imperative of the collective will. It isabsolutely impossible to give self-government: no one has the rightto give it; no one has the power to give it. Group A _allows_ groupB to govern itself. This is an empty permission unless B has_learned how_ to govern itself.  Self-government must always begrown. Sovereignty is always a psychological process.  Many of Duguit's errors come from a misconception of the socialprocess. Violently opposed to a collective will, he sees in theindividual thought and will the only genuine "_chose en soi_" (itis interesting to notice that _la chose en soi_ finds a place inthe thought of many pluralists). Not admitting the process of"community" he asserts that _la re'gle de droit_ is anterior andsuperior to the state; he does not see the true relation of _ledroit_ to l'e'tat_, that they evolve together, that the sameprocess which creates _le droit_ creates _l'e'tat_ [1].  The willof the people, he insists, can not create _le droit_. Here he doesnot see the unity of the social process. He separates will andpurpose and the activity of the reciprocal inter-change instead ofseeing them as one.  Certainly the will of the people does notcreate _le droit_, but the social process in its entire unity does."Positive law must constantly follow _le droit objectif_." Ofcourse. "_Le droit objectif_ is constantly evolving."  Certainly. But how evolving?  Here is where we disagree. The social processcreates _le droit objectif_, and will is an essential part of thesocial process. Purpose is an essential part of the social process.Separate the parts of the social process and you have a differentidea of jurisprudence, of democracy, of political institutions. Aim is all-important for Duguit. The rule of _le droit_ is the ruleof conscious ends: only the aim gives a will its worth; if the aimis juridical (conformed to _la re'gle de droit_), then the will isjuridical. Thus Duguit's pragmatism is one which has not yet riditself of absolute standards.  It might be urged that it has,because he finds his absolute standards in "social solidarity." Butany one who believes that the individual will is a _chose en soi_,and who separates the elements of the social process, does notwholly admit the self-sufficing character of that process.     1. See p. 130.  The modern tendency in many quarters, however, in regard toconceptions of social practice, is to substitute ends for will [1].     1. De Maeztu tells us, "Bights do not arise from personality.     This idea is mystic and unnecessary. Rights arise primarily     from the relation of the associated with the thing which     associates them     Authority, Liberty, and Function, p.250.       Mr. Barker substitutes purpose for personality and will as     the unifying bond of associations, and says that we thus get     rid of "murder in the air" when it is a question of the     "competition of ideas, not of real collective personalities."      (See "The Discredited State," in _The Political Quarterly_,     February, 1915.)  This seems a curiously anthropomorphic, so     to speak, idea of personality for a twentieth-century writer.     The article is, however, an interesting and valuable one.       See also Pollock and Maitland, History of English Law, I,     472.This is a perfectly comprehensible reaction, but futurejurisprudence must certainly unite these two ideas.  ProfessorJethro Brown says, "The justification for governmental action isfound not in consent but in the purpose it serves." Not in thatalone.  De Maeztu says, "The profound secret of associations is notthat men have need of one another, but that they need the samething." These two ideas can merge. Professor Brown makes the commongood the basis of the new doctrine of natural right [1]. But wemust all remember, what I do not doubt this writer does remember,that purpose can never be a _chose en soi_, and that, of the utmostimportance, the "new natural law" can be brought into manifestationonly by certain modes of association.     1. See "Underlying Principles of Legislation."  It is true, as Duguit says, that the state has the "right" towill because of the thing willed, that it has no "subjective" rightto will, that its justification is in its purpose.  (This is ofcourse the truth in regard to all our "rights"; they are justifiedonly by the use we make of them.) And yet there is a truth in theold idea of the "right" of a collectivity to will. These two ideasmust be synthesized. They _are_ synthesized by the new psychologywhich sees the purpose forming the will at the same time as thewill forms the purpose, which finds no separation anywhere in thesocial process. We can never think of purpose as something in frontwhich leads us on, as the carrot the donkey. Purpose is never infront of us, it appears at every moment with the appearance ofwill. Thus the new school of jurisprudence founded on socialpsychology cannot be a teleological school alone, but must befounded on all the elements which constitute the social process.Ideals do not operate in a vacuum. This theorists seem sometimes toforget, but those of us who have had tragic experience of thistruth are likely to give more emphasis to the interaction ofpurpose, will and activity, past and present activity. Therecognition that _le droit_ is the product of a group processswallows up the question as to whether it is "objective" or"subjective"; it is neither, it is both; we look at the matterquite differently [1].     1. The teleological school of sociology is interesting just     here. While it marked a long advance on older theories, the     true place of selection of ends is to-day more clearly seen.     We were told: "Men have wants, therefore they come together to     seek means to satisfy those wants." When do men "come     together"?  When were they ever separated?  But it is not     necessary to push this further.  To sum up this point. We must all, I think, agree with the"objective" conception of law in its essence, but not in itsdividing the social process, a true unity, into separate parts.Rights arise from relation, and purpose is bound up in therelation. The relation of men to one another and to the objectsought are part of the same process. Duguit has rendered usinvaluable service in his insistence that _le droit_ must be basedon "_la vie actuelle_," but he does not take the one step furtherand see that _le droit_ is born within the group, that there is anessential law of the group as different from other modes ofassociation, and that this has many implications.  The _droit_ evolved by a group is the _droit_ of that group. The_droit_ evolved by a state-group (we agree that there is nostate-group yet, the state is evolving, the _droit_ is evolving,there is only an approximate state, an approximately genuine_droit_) is the _droit_ of the state. The contribution of the newpsychology is that _le droit_ comes from relation and is always inrelation. The warning of the new psychology to the advocates ofvocational representation is that the _droit_ (either as law orright) [2] evolved by men of one occupation only will represent toolittle intermingling to express the "community" truth. We don'twant doctors' ethics and lawyers' ethics, and so on through thevarious groups. That is just the trouble at present. Employers andemployees meet in conference. Watch those conferences. Thedifference of interest is not always the whole difficulty; there isalso the difference of standard. Capitalist ethics and workmanethics are often opposed. We must accept _le droit_ as a socialproduct, as a group product, but we must have groups which willunify interests and standards. Law and politics can be founded onnothing but vital modes of association.     2.  I have tried not to jump the track from legal right to     ethical right but occasionally one can speak of them together,     if it is understood that one is not thereby merging them.  Mr. Roscoe Pound's exposition of modern law is just here a greathelp to political theory. The essential, the vital part of histeaching, is, not his theory of law based on interests, not hisemphasis upon relation, but his bringing together of these twoideas. This takes us out of the vague, nebulous region of much ofthe older legal and political theory, and shows us the actualmethod of living our daily lives. All that he says of relationimplies that we must seek and bring into use those modes ofassociation which will reveal true interests, actual interests, yetnot particularist interests but the interests discovered throughgroup relations -- employer and employed, master and servant,landlord and tenant, etc. But, and this is of great importance,these groups must be made into genuine groups. If law is to be agroup-product, we must see that our groups are real groups, we mustfind the true principle of association. For this we need, as I mustcontinually repeat, the study of group psychology. "Life," "man,""society," are coming to have little meaning for us: it is yourlife and my life with which we are concerned, not "man" but the menwe see around us, not "society" but the many societies in which wepass our lives. "Social" values?  We want individual values, butindividual values discovered through group relations.  To sum up this point: (1) law should be a group-product, (2) weshould therefore have genuine groups, (3) political method must besuch that the "law" of the group can become embodied in ourlegislation.  M. Duguit's disregarding of the laws of that intermingling whichis the basis of his _droit objectif_ leads to a partialunderstanding only of the vote.  Voting is for him still in a waya particularist matter. To be sure he calls it a function and thatmarks a certain advance. Moreover he wishes us to consider the votean "objective" power, an "objective" duty, not a "subjective"right.  This is an alluring theory in a pragmatic age. And if yousee it leading to syndicalism which you have already acceptedbeforehand, it is all the more alluring! But to call the vote afunction is only half the story; as long as it is a particularistvote, it does not help us much to have it rest on function, orrather, it goes just half the way. It must rest on theintermingling of all my functions, it must rest on theintermingling of all my functions with all the functions of all theothers; it must rest indeed on social solidarity, but a socialsolidarity in which every man interpenetrating with every other isthereby approaching a whole of which he is the whole at one point.  Duguit, full of Rousseau, does not think it possible to have acollective sovereignty without every one having an equal share ofthis collective sovereignty, and he most strenuously opposes _lesuffrage universal egalitaire_. But le suffrage universelegalitaire staring all the obvious inequalities of man in the face,Rousseau's divided sovereignty based on an indivisible sovereignty_- all these things no longer trouble you when you see the vote asthe expression at one point of some approximate whole produced bythe intermingling of men.  True sovereignty and true functionalism are not opposed; the voteresting on "subjective" right and the vote resting on "objective"power are not opposed, but the particularist vote and the genuinelyindividual vote are opposed. Any doctrine which contains a trace ofparticularism in any form cannot gain our allegiance.  Again Duguit's ignoring of the psychology of the social processleads him to the separation of governors and governed. Thisseparation is for him the essential fact of the state. Sovereigntyis with those individuals who can impose their will upon others. Hesays no one can give orders to himself, but as a matter of fact noone can really give orders to any one but himself [1]. Here Duguitconfuses present facts and future possibilities. Let us _be_ thestate, let us be sovereign -- over ourselves. As the problem in thelife of each one of us is to find the way to unify the warringelements within us -- as only thus do we gain sovereignty overourselves -- so the problem is the same for the state. Duguit isright in saying that the German theory of auto-limitation isunnecessary, but not in the reasons he gives for it. A psychicentity is subordinate to the _droit_ which itself evolves not byauto-limitation, but by the essential and intrinsic law of thegroup.     1. The old consent theory assumes that some make the laws and     others obey them. In the true democracy we shall obey the laws     we have ourselves made. To find the methods by which we can be     approaching the true democracy is now our task; we can never     rest satisfied with "consent."  But Duguit has done us large service not only in his doctrine ofa law, a right, born of our actual life, of our always evolvinglife, but also in his insistence on the individual which makes himone of the builders of the new individualism [2]. We see in thegradual transformation of the idea of natural law which took placeamong the French jurists of the end of the nineteenth century, thestruggle of the old particularism with the feelings-out for thetrue individualism. That the French have been slow to give upindividual rights, that many of them have not given them up for anycollective theory, but, feeling the truth underneath the olddoctrine, have sought (and found) a different interpretation, adifferent basis and a different use, has helped us allimmeasurably.     2. Although I do not agree with the form individualism takes     in his doctrine.  Group psychology shows us the process of man creating socialpower, evolving his own "rights." We now see that man's only rightsare group-rights. These are based on his activity in the group --you can call it function if you like, only unless you are carefulthat tends to become mechanical, and it tends to an organicfunctionalism in which lurk many dangers. But the main point for usto grasp is that we can never understand rights by an abstractdiscussion of "subjective" _vs_. "objective" -- only by the closeststudy of the process by which these rights are evolved. The truebasis of rights is neither a "mystical" idea of relatedpersonalities, nor is it to be found entirely in the relation ofthe associated to the object sought; a truly modern conception oflaw synthesizes these two ideas. "Function," de Maeztu tells us"[is] a quality independent of the wills of men." This is ameaningless sentence to the new psychology. At present theexposition of the "objective" theory of law is largely a polemicagainst the "subjective." When we understand more of grouppsychology, and it can be put forth in a positive manner, it willwin many more adherents.  Then as soon as the psychological foundation of law is clearlyseen, the sovereignty of the state in its old meaning will beneither acclaimed nor denied. An understanding of the group processteaches us the true nature of sovereignty. We can agree with thepluralist school that the present state has no "right" tosovereignty [1]; we can go further and say that the state willnever be more than ideally sovereign, further still and say thatthe whole idea of sovereignty must be recast and take a differentplace in political science. And yet, with the meaning given to itby present psychology, it is perhaps the most vital thought of thenew politics. The sovereign is not the crowd, it is not millions ofunrelated atoms, but men joining to form a real whole. Theatomistic idea of sovereignty is dead, we all agree, but we maylearn to define sovereignty differently.     1. Some of the pluralists are concerned, I recognize, with the     fact rather than the right of sovereignty.  Curiously enough, some of the pluralists are acknowledgedfollowers of Gierke and Maitland, and base much of their doctrineon the "real personality" of the group. But the group can createits own personality only by the "compounding of consciousness," byevery member being at one and the same time an individual and the"real personality." If it is possible for the members of a group toevolve a unified consciousness, a common idea, a collective will,for the many to become really one, not in a mystical sense but asan actual fact, for the group to have a real not a fictionalpersonality, this process can be carried on through group andgroup, our task, an infinite one, to evolve a state with a realpersonality.  The imagination of the born pluralist stops with thegroup [2].     2. The trouble with the pluralists is that their emphasis is     not on the fact that the group creates its own personality,     but on the fact that the state does _not_ create it  When they     change this emphasis, their thinking will be unchained, I     believe, and leap ahead to the constructive work which we     eagerly await and expect from them.  But even in regard to the group the pluralists seem sometimes tofall into contradictions. Sovereignty, we are often told, must bedecentralized and divided among the local units. But according totheir own theory by whom is the sovereignty to be divided? The factis that the local units must _grow_ sovereignty, that we want torevivify local life not for the purpose of breaking up sovereignty,but for the purpose of creating a real sovereignty.  The pluralists always tell us that the unified state proceedsfrom the One to the Many; that is why they discard the unifiedstate. This is not true of the unifying state which I am trying toindicate. They think that the only alternative to pluralism iswhere you begin with the whole. That is, it is true, the classicmonism, but we know now that authority is to proceed from the Manyto the One, from the smallest neighborhood group up to the city,the state, the nation. This is the process of life, always aunifying through the interpenetration of the Many -- Oneness aninfinite goal.  This is expressed more accurately by saying, as I have elsewhere,that the One and the Many are constantly creating each other. Thepluralists object to the One that comes before the Many. They areright, but we need not therefore give up oneness. When we say thatthere is the One which comes _from_ the Many, this does not meanthat the One is _above_ the Many. The deepest truth of life is thatthe interrelating by which both are at the same time a-making isconstant.  This must be clearly understood in the building of thenew state.  The essential error in the theory of distributed sovereignty isthat each group has an isolated sovereignty. The truth is that eachshould represent the whole united sovereignty at one point as eachindividual is his whole group at one point. An understanding ofthis fact seems to me absolutely necessary to further developmentof political theory [1].  This does not mean that the state mustcome first, that the group gets its power from the state. This thepluralists rightfully resent. The power within the group is its owngenetically and wholly. But the same force which forms a group mayform a group of groups.     1. It is also necessary to an understanding of the new     international law  See ch. XXXV, "The World State."  But the conclusion drawn by some pluralists from the theory of"real personality" is that the state is superfluous because acorporate personality has the right to assert autonomy over itself.They thus acknowledge that pluralism means for them group and groupand group side by side. But here they are surely wrong. They ignorethe implications of the psychological fact that power developedwithin the group does not cease with the formation of the group.That very same force which has bound the individuals together inthe group (and which the theory of "real personality" recognizes)goes on working, you cannot stop it; it is the fundamental force oflife, of all nature, of all humanity, the universal law of being --the out-reaching for the purpose of further unifying. If this forcegoes on working after the group is formed, what becomes of it? Itmust reach out to embrace other groups in order to repeat exactlythe same process.  When you stop your automobile without stopping your engine, thepower which runs your car goes on working exactly the same, but iscompletely lost.  It only makes a noise. Do we want this to happento our groups? Are they to end only in disagreeable noises? Inorder that the group-force shall not be lost, we must provide meansfor it to go on working effectively after it is no longer neededwithin the group, so to speak. We must provide ways for it to goout to meet the life force of other groups, the new power thusgenerated again and endlessly to seek new forms of unification.  No"whole" can imprison us infinite beings. The centre of today is thecircumference of to-morrow.  Thus while the state is not necessary to grant authority, it isthe natural outcome of the uniting groups. The state must be thecollective mind embodying the moral will and purpose of All. Fromliving group to living group to the "real" state -- such must beour line of evolution.  Sovereignty, it is true, is a fact, not a theory. Whoever cangain obedience has the sovereign power. But we must go beyond thisand seek those political methods by which the command shall be withthose who have evolved a genuine authority, that is, an authorityevolved by what I have called the true social process. We must gobeyond this and seek those methods by which a genuine authority_can_ be evolved, by which the true social process shall beeverywhere possible. To repeat: first, the true social process mustbe given full opportunity and scope, then it must be made the basisof political method. Then shall we see emerging a genuine authoritywhich we can all acclaim as sovereign. There is, I agree with thepluralists, a great advantage in that authority being multiple andvaried, but a static pluralism, so to speak, would be as bad as astatic monism. The groups are always reaching out _towards_ unity. Our safeguard against crystallization is that every fresh unitymeans (as I have tried to show in chapter III) the throwing out ofmyriad fresh differences -- our safeguard is that the universeknows no static unity. Unification means sterilization; unifyingmeans a perpetual generating. We do not want the unifiedsovereignty of Germany; but when you put the individual and thegroup first, you get unifying sovereignty [1].     1. No one has yet given us a satisfactory account of the     history of the notion of sovereignty: just how and in what     degree it has been affected by history, by philosophy, by     jurisprudence, etc., and how all these have interacted. We     have not only to disentangle many strands to trace each to its     source, but we have, moreover, just not to disentangle them,     but to understand the constant interweaving of all. To watch     the interplay of legal theory and political philosophy from     the Middle Ages down to the present day is one of the most     interesting parts of our reading, but perhaps nowhere is it     more fruitful than in the idea of sovereignty. We see the     corporation long ignored and the idea of legal partnership     influencing the development of the social contract theory,     which in its turn reacted on legal theory. We find the     juristic conception of group personality, clearly seen as     early as Althusius (1557-1638), and revived and expanded by     Gierke, influencing the whole German school of "group     sociologists." But to-day are not many of us agreed that     however interesting such historical tracing, our present     notion of sovereignty must rest on what we learn from group     psychology?