THE NEW STATEBy Mary Parker FollettThe Neighborhood Group:Chapter XXVNeighborhood Organization vs. Party OrganizationLeaders or Bosses?NEIGHBORHOOD organization will prove fatal to party organizationnot only through the creating of a genuine will of the people, butalso through the producing of real leaders to take the place of thebosses.  American democracy has always been afraid of leadership. Ourconstitutions of the eighteenth century provided no one departmentto lead, no one man in the legislature to lead.  Therefore, as wemust have leadership, there has been much undefined, irresponsibleleadership. This has often meant corruption and abuse, bad enough,but worse still it has meant the creation of machinery for theperpetuation of corruption, the encouragement of abuse. Undermachine politics we choose for our leaders the men who are mostpopular for the moment or who have worked out the most thoroughsystem of patronage, or rather of course we do not choose at all.We have two kinds of leaders under our party system, both the wrongkind: we have our actual leaders, the bosses, and our officialleaders who have tended to be men who could be managed by theparty. Our officials in their campaign speeches say that they arethe "servants of the people." But we do not want "servants" anymore than we want bosses; we want genuine leaders. Now that moreand more direct power is being given to the people it is especiallynecessary that we should not be led by machine bosses, but that weshould evolve the kind of leadership which will serve a truedemocracy, which will be the expression of a true democracy, andwill guide it to democratic ends by democratic methods.  We hope through local group organization to evolve real leaders. There should be in a democracy some sort of regular and ceaselessprocess by which ability of all sorts should come to the top,. andflexibility in our forms so that new ability can always find itsgreatest point of usefulness, and so that service which is nolonger useful can be replaced by that which is.  In neighborhoodgroups where we have different alignments on different questions,there will be a tendency for those to lead at any particular momentwho are most competent to lead in the particular matter in hand.Thus a mechanical leadership will give place to a vital leadership.Suppose the subject is sanitation. The man who is most interested,who has the clearest view of the need and who is its most insistentchampion, will naturally step forth as the leader in that. The manwho knows most about educational matters will lead in those, willbe chosen eventually for the school committee or for theeducational committee of the state legislature.  Thus the differentleaders of a democracy appear.  Here in the neighborhood groupleaders are born.  Democracy is the breeding-ground of aristocracy.You have all the chance the world gives.  In your neighborhoodgroup show the clearness of your mind, the strength of your grip,your power to elicit and to guide cooperative action, and youemerge as the leader of men.  No adequate statement can be made in regard to leadership untilit is studied in relation to group psychology.  The leadership ofthe British Premier, of President Wilson, will become interestingstudies when we have a better understanding of this subject.Meanwhile let us look briefly at some of the qualities ofleadership.  The leader guides the group and is at the same time himselfguided by the group, is always a part of the group. No one cantruly lead except from within. One danger of conceiving the leaderas outside is that then what ought to be group loyalty will becomepersonal loyalty. When we have a leader within the group these twoloyalties can merge.  The leader must have the instinct to trace every evil to itscause, but, equally valuable, he must be able to see the relativevalue of the cause to each one of his group -- in other words, tosee the total relativity of the cause to the group. He must drawout all the varying needs of the neighborhood as related to thecause and reconcile them in the remedy. A baby is ill; is the milkperhaps too rich for babies? But probably the rest of theneighborhood demands rich milk. All the neighborhood needs inregard to milk must be elicited and reconciled in the remedy forthe sick child.  That is, the remedy cannot be thinner milk, but itmay be a demand that the milkman have separate milk for babies.  In other words the leader of our neighborhood group mustinterpret our experience to us, must see all the different pointsof view which underlie our daily activities and also theirconnections, must adjust the varying and often conflicting needs,must lead the group to an understanding of its needs and to aunification of its purpose. He must give form to things vague,things latent, to mere tendencies. He must be able to lead us towise decisions, not to impose his own wise decisions upon us.  Weneed leaders, not masters or drivers.  The power of leadership is the power of integrating. This is thepower which creates community. You can see it when two or threestrangers or casual acquaintances are calling upon some one. Withsome hostesses you all talk across at one another as entirelyseparate individuals, pleasantly and friendlily (sic), to be sure,but still across unbridged chasms; while other hostesses have thepower of making you all feel for the moment related, as if you wereone little community for the time being. This is a subtle as wellas a valuable gift. It is one that leaders of men must possess. Itis thus that the collective will is evolved from out the chaos ofvaried personality and complex circumstance.  The skillful leader then does not rely on personal force; hecontrols his group not by dominating but by expressing it. Hestimulates what is best in us; he unifies and concentrates what wefeel only gropingly and scatteringly, but he never gets away fromthe current of which we and he are both an integral part. He is aleader who gives form to the inchoate energy in every man. Theperson who influences me most is not he who does great deeds but hewho makes me feel I can do great deeds. Many people tell me what Iought to do and just how I ought to do it, but few have made mewant to do something. Who ever has struck fire out of me, arousedme to action which I should not otherwise have taken, he has beenmy leader.  The community leader is he who can liberate thegreatest amount of energy in his community.   Then the neighborhood leader must be a practical politician. Hemust be able to interpret a neighborhood not only to itself but toothers. He must know not only the need of every charwoman but howpolitics can answer her call. He must know the great movements ofthe present and their meaning, and he must know how the smallestneeds and the humblest powers of his neighborhood can be fittedinto the progressive movements of our time. His duty is to shapepolitics continuously. As the satisfaction of one need, or theexpression of one latent power, reveals many more, he must bealways alert and ever ready to gather up the many threads into onestrand of united endeavor. He is the patient watcher, the activespokesman, the sincere and ardent exponent of a communityconsciousness.  His guiding, embracing and dominant thought is tomake that community consciousness articulate in government.  The politician is not a group but a crowd leader. The leader ofa crowd dominates because a crowd wants to be dominated. Politicians do not try to convince but to dazzle; they do not dealwith facts but with formulae and vague generalizations, with theflag and the country. If our politicians and our representativesare not our most competent men, but those who have the greatestpower of suggestion and are most adroit in using it, the proposalhere is that we shall develop methods which will produce realleaders. We are aiming now in the reorganization of our stateconstitutions at responsible official leadership instead of theirresponsible party boss system which was necessary once because wehad to have leaders of some sort. How far this new movement shallsucceed, will depend on how far it has back of it, or can be madeto have back of it, the kind of organization which will developgroup not crowd leaders.  Through neighborhood organization we hope that real leadersinstead of bosses will be evolved. Democracy does not tend tosuppress leadership as is often stated; it is the only organizationof society which will bring out leadership. As soon as we are givenopportunities for the release of the energy there is in us, heroesand leaders will arise among us. These will draw their stimulus,their passion, their life from all, and then in their turn increasein all passion and power and creating force.