THE NEW STATEby Mary Parker FollettThe Neighborhood Group:Chapter XXVINeighborhood Organization vs. Party OrganizationA Responsible NeighborhoodWE have said that neighborhood organization must replace partyorganization by evolving a true will of the people, by giving usleaders instead of bosses, and by making possible a responsiblegovernment to take the place of our irresponsible party government.Let us now consider the last point: the possibility of anintegrated neighborhood responsibility.  Under our party organization the men who formulate the partyplatform do not have the official responsibility of carrying itout. Moreover at present representative government rests on thefallacy that when you delegate the job you delegate theresponsibility. Most of the abuses which have crept in, businesscorruption and political bossism alike, are due in large measure tothis delegating of responsibility. What we need is a kind ofgovernment which will delegate the job but not the responsibility.The case is somewhat like that of the head of a businessundertaking, who makes the men under him responsible for their ownwork and still the final responsibility rests with him. This is notdivided responsibility but shared responsibility -- a verydifferent thing.  Consider what happens when I want to get a bill through thelegislature. I may feel sure that the bill is good and also that"the people" want it, but I can work only through party, and at thestate house I have to face all the special interests bound up withparty, all the thousand and one "political" considerations, whetherI succeed or fail. But of course I recognize the humor of thisstatement: I ought never to try to get a bill through thelegislature; special and partial groups have to do this simplybecause there is at present no other way; there must be some otherway, some recognized way. We do not want to circumvent party but toreplace party.  Our reform associations, while they have fought party, have oftenendeavored to substitute their own organization for the partyorganization. This has often been the alternative offered to us --do we want good government or poor government?  We have not beenasked if we would like to govern ourselves. This is why Mitchelllost last year in New York. One of the New York papers during thecampaign advised Mr. Mitchell "to get nearer the people." But it isnot for government to "get nearer" the people; it must identifyitself with the people. It isn't enough for the "good" officials toexplain to the people what they are doing; they must take thepeople into their counsels. If the Gary system had ever beenproperly put up to the fathers it is doubtful if they would havevoted against it. Then a good deal of this advice in regard to cityofficials "explaining" their plans in all parts of the city leavesout of account that the local people have a great deal to give.Some of the most uneducated, so-called, of the fathers and mothersmight have had valuable points of view to offer in regard to thepractical workings of the Gary system.  Tammany won in New York and we heard many people say, "Well, thisis your democracy, the people want bad government, the majority ofpeople in New York city have voted for it." Nothing could be moresuperficial.  What the election in New York meant was that "thepeople" are cleverer than was thought; they know that the questionshould not be of "good" government or "bad" government, but only ofself-government, and the only way they have of expressing this isto vote against a government which _seems_ to disregard them.  To say, "We are good men, we are honest officials, we areemploying experts on education, sanitation etc, you must trust us,"will not do; some way must be devised of connecting the experts andthe people -- that is the first thing to be worked out, then someway of tailing the people into the counsels of city administration.All of us criticize things we don't know anything about. As soon aswe see the difficulties, _as soon as the responsibility is put uponus_, our whole attitude changes. Take the popular cry "Bostonpositions for Boston people." This seems a pretty good principle tosuperficial thinking. But when we know that we have anappropriation of $200,000 a year for a certain department, and arelooking for a man to administer it, when we go into the matter andfind that there are only two or three experts for this position inthe United States, and that not one of these lives in Boston, thequestion takes the concrete form, "Shall we allow $200,000 of ourmoney to be wasted through inept administration?" It might be said,"But city governments do have the responsibility and yet this isjust what they are all the time doing." Certainly, because theirposition rests on patronage, but I am proposing that the wholesystem be changed.  Neighborhood organization must be the method of effective popularresponsibility: first, by giving reality to the political bond;secondly, by providing the machinery by which a genuine control ofthe people can be put into operation. At present nearly all ourneeds are satisfied by external agencies, government orinstitutional. Health societies offer health to us, recreationassociations teach us how to play, civic art leagues give us morebeautiful surroundings, associated charities give us poor relief.A kind lady leads my girl to the dentist, a kind young man findsemployment for my boy, a stern officer of the city sees that mychildren are in their places at school. I am constantly being actedupon, no one is encouraging me to act. New York has one hundredmunicipal welfare divisions and bureaus. Thus am I robbed of mymost precious possession -- my responsibilities -- for only theactive process of participation can shape me for the socialpurpose.  But all this is to end. The community itself must grip its ownproblems, must fill its needs, must make effective its aspirations. If we want the latest scientific knowledge in regard to foodvalues, let us get an expert to come to us, not wait for somesociety to send an "agent" to us; if the stores near us are notselling at fair prices, let us make a cooperative effort to setthis right. If we want milk and baby hygiene organized, our ownlocal doctors should, in proper cooperation with experts on the onehand and the mothers on the other, organize this branch of publicservice.  The medical experts may be employees of the government,but if the plan of their service be worked out by all three -- theexperts, the local doctors and the mothers -- the results will be:(1) that the needs of the neighborhood will really be met, (2) muchvaluable time of the expert will be saved, (3) a close follow-upwill be possible, (4) the expert can be called in whenevernecessary through local initiative, and (5) the machinery will bein existence by which the study of that particular problem can becarried on not as a special investigation but as a regular part ofneighborhood life.  Take another example.  The Placement Bureau is also a necessarypublic service: it needs the work of experts and it needs pooledinformation and centralized machinery; a parent cannot find out allthe jobs available in a city for boys of 16 in order to place oneboy. But as long as the secretary of the Placement Bureau appearsin the home and takes this whole burden off the parent, and off thecommunity he is serving, his work will not be well done. For theboy will suffer eventually: he cannot be cut off from his communitywithout being hurt; community incentive is the greatest one weknow, and somehow there must be worked out some communityresponsibility for that boy, as well as some responsibility on hispart to his community for standing up or falling down on his job.I say that the boy will eventually suffer; his community also willsuffer, for it also has need of him; moreover, the community willgreatly suffer by the loss of this opportunity of connecting it,through the parents, with the whole industrial problem of the city.The expert service of the Placement Bureau, whether it isadministered by city or state, should always be joined to localinitiative, effort and responsibility.  And so for every need.  If we want well-managed dances for ourdaughters, we, mothers and fathers, must go and manage them. We donot exist on one side and the government on the other. If you go toa municipal dance-hall and see it managed by officials appointedfrom City Hall, you say, "This is a government affair." But if yougo to a schoolhouse and see a dance managed by men and women chosenby the district, you say, "This is a community affair, governmenthas nothing to do with this." These two conceptions must minglebefore we can have any worthy political life. It must be clearlyseen that we can operate _as_ government as well as _with_government, that the citizen functions through government and thegovernment functions through the citizen. It is not a municipaldance-hall regulated by the city authorities which expresses theright relation between civics and dancing, but dances planned andmanaged by a neighborhood for itself.  It is not the civic theatre which is the last word in therelation of the drama to the people, it is a community organizedtheatre. Art and civics do not meet merely by the state presentingart to its members; the civic expression of art is illustrated bylocally managed festivals, by community singing, a local orchestraor dramatic club, community dancing etc. Those of us who areworking for civic art are working for this: for people to expressthemselves in artistic forms and to organize themselves for thatpurpose. The state must give the people every opportunity forbuilding up their own full, varied, healthful life. It seems to beoften thought that when the state provides schools, parks,universities etc., there you have the ideal state. But we must gobeyond this and find our ideal state in that which shows itsmembers how to build up its own life _in_ schools, parks,universities etc. [1]     1. The war has shown us that our national agricultural program     can best be done on a cooperative neighborhood basis: through     the establishment of community agricultural conferences,     community labor, seed and implement exchanges, community     canning centres, community markets, etc.  The question which the state must always be trying to answer ishow it can do more for its members at the same time that it isstimulating them to do more for themselves. No, more than this, itsdoing more for them must take the form of their doing more forthemselves. Our modern problem is not, as one would think from someof the writing on social legislation, how much the increasedactivity of the state can do for the individual, but how theincreasing activity of the individual can be state activity, howthe widening of the sphere of state activity can be a widening ofour own activity. The arguments for or against government actionshould not take the form of how much or how little governmentaction we shall have, but entirely of how government action andself-action can coincide.  Our one essential political problem isalways how to be the state, not, putting the state on one side andthe individual on the other, to work out their respectiveprovinces. I have said in the chapter on "Our Political Dualism"that the state and the individual are one, yet this is pure theoryuntil we make them one. But they can never be made one throughschemes of representation etc., only by the intimate daily lives ofall becoming the constituents of the life of the state.  When a Mothers' Club in one of the Boston School Centres found aunited want -- that of keeping their children off the streets onSaturday afternoon and giving them some wholesome amusement -- anddecided to meet this want by asking the city of Boston forpermission to use the moving-picture machine of the Dorchester HighSchool for fairy-story films, the mothers to manage theundertaking, two significant facts stand out: (1) they did not askan outside agency to do something for them, for the men and womenof Dorchester, with all the other men and women of Boston, _are_the city of Boston; (2) they were not merely doing something fortheir children on those Saturday afternoons, they were in a senseofficials of the city of Boston working for the youth of Boston.These two conceptions must blend: we do not do for government,government does not do for us, we should be constantly the handsand feet, yes and the head and heart of government [1].     1. I do not mean to imply that I think it is easy to learn how     to identify ourselves with our city, especially for those who     live In large cities. The men of a small town know that if     they have a new town-hall they will have to pay for it. In a     large city men ask for a ward building because they will not     have to pay for it, they think. It is all this which     neighborhood organization and the integration of     neighborhoods, of which I shall speak later, must remedy.  A most successful effort at neighborhood organization is that ofthe East Harlem Community Association, which set East Harlem towork on its own problems: first to investigate conditions, and thento find a way of meeting these conditions. The most interestingpoint about the whole scheme is that the work is not done by"experts" or any one else from outside; there are no paid visitors,but a committee of twelve mothers -- one colored woman, twoItalian, two Jewish, two Irish, three American, one Polish, and oneGerman -- are doing the work well. As a result of the activities ofthe East Harlem Community Association there are now in a publicschool building of the neighborhood organized athletic clubs,industrial classes, orchestra, glee, dramatic and art clubs,concerts, good moving pictures, dances, big brother and big sistergroups, Mothers' Leagues, Parents' Associations, physicalexamination of school children etc. Of course these communityassociations must use expert advice and expert service. Exactly howthis relation will be most satisfactorily worked out we do not yetclearly see [1].     1 The plan of Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur Phillips for community     organization and for the connection with it of expert service     is too comprehensive to describe here, but based as it is on     their actual experience, and planning as it does for the     training of whole neighborhoods and the arousing of them to     responsibility and action, it should be studied by every one,     for such plans are, I believe, the best signs we have that     democracy is yet possible for America.  I give this merely as one illustration out of many possible ones.The necessity of neighborhood organization as the basis of futureprogress is seen by many people to-day. In New York there is avigorous movement for "Neighborhood Associations"; there are fouralready in active working order. If the main idea of some of theseis services rendered rather than neighborhood organization; ifothers see too great a separation between needs and thesatisfaction of the needs, that is, if the neighborhoods are alwaysto ask the questions and the experts to find the answers, stillthese Associations are an interesting and valuable part of theneighborhood movement [1].     1. How much we are all indebted to the settlements as the     pioneer neighborhood movement I do not stop to consider here.  The acute problem of municipal life is how to make us men andwomen of Boston feel that we _are_ the city, directly responsiblefor everything concerning it. Neighborhood organization, broughtinto existence largely by the growing feeling of each individualthat he is responsible for the life around him, itself thenincreases and focuses this sense of responsibility. Neighborhoodassociation is vivid and intimate. Whereas the individual seemslost in a big city, through his neighborhood he not only becomes anintegral part of the city but becomes keenly conscious of hiscitizenship.  In a word, what we hope neighborhood organization will do for thedevelopment of responsibility is this: that men will learn thatthey are not to _influence_ politics through their local groups,they are to _be_ politics. This is the error of some of the reformassociations: they want to influence politics. This point of viewwill never spell progress for us. When we have the organizedneighborhood group, when every man sees the problems of politicaland social reorganization not as abstract matters but asconstituting his daily life, when men are so educated in politicsas to feel that they themselves are politics functioning, and whenour organization is such that this functioning recoils on them,they will so shape their conduct as to change the situation. Thenwhen they are conscious of themselves as masters of the situationthey will acknowledge their responsibility.  We see many signs around us to-day of an increased sense ofresponsibility, of a longing for a self-expression that is not tobe an individual self-expression but community self-expression. Take the women's clubs: in their first stage their object waspersonal development; in the second they wished to do something fortheir town; in the present or third stage women are demandingthrough some of the more progressive clubs, through women's municipal leagues etc., a more direct share in community life. Theyare joining together not to benefit themselves, not to benefitothers, as others, but because all together they wish to expresstheir community -- no, they wish to _be_ their community. They arenot satisfied with serving, but gathering up the service of all ina common consciousness, each feels herself the whole and seeks toexpress the whole.  But I do not mean that this greater realization of community isconfined to women. How often in the past we have heard a man saycomplacently, "Well, I suppose I must do my duty and go to thepolls and vote to-morrow," or "I must show myself at that rallytonight." But a nobler idea than this is now filling the minds ofmany men. They go to their civic club not because it is their duty,but because just there working together with their fellows for thefurtherance of their common aims, they find their greatestsatisfaction. In neighborhood groups men can find thatself-realization which becomes by the most wonderful miracle lifecan offer us community realization. That is, I can learn through myneighborhood group that I am the city, I am the nation, and thatfatal transference of responsibility to an invisible andnon-existent "they" can be blotted out forever. When neighborhoodorganization begins to teach that there is no "they," that it isalways we, we, we, that mothers are responsible and fathers areresponsible, and young men are responsible, and young women areresponsible, for their city and their nation, it will begin toteach its chief lesson.  Do I thrill with the passion of service, of joyful, voluntarysurrender to a mighty cause as I sail for France to serve the greatends of the Allies?  Social and political organization are fatallyat fault if they cannot give me the same elation as I go to myNeighborhood Centre and know that there too the world has vitalneed of me, there too am I not only pouring myself out in worldservice, but that I am, just in so far, creating, actuallybuilding, a new and fairer world.  This is the finest word that can be said for neighborhoodorganization, for my finding my place through my response to everydaily need of my nearest group. For the great word I believe onthis subject is not that I _serve_ my neighborhood, my city, mynation, but that by this service I _become_ my neighborhood, mycity, my nation. Surely at this hour in our history we can realizethis as never before. The soul of America is being born to-day. Thewar is binding together class and class, alien and American, menand women. We rejoice that we are alive at this moment, but thekeenness of my joy is not because I can serve America but becauseI am America. I save food in my home not in order that my familyincome can meet the strain of the higher prices, not because I canthereby help to send more food to the Allies, but because I, savingthe food of America for the Allies and the world, am performingAmerica's task, _am_ therefore America. This is the deeper thoughtof neighborhood organization: that through performing my humblestduties I am creating the soul of this great democracy.   Neighborhood organization must then take the place of partyorganization.  The neighborhood group will answer many of thequestions we have put to a party organization which has remaineddeaf to our importunities, dumb to all our entreaties. We haveasked for bread and received the stone times without number. Therigid formality of the party means stultification, annihilation.But group politics, made of the very stuff of life, of the peopleof the groups, will express the inner, intimate, ardent desires ofspontaneous human beings, and will contain within its circumferencethe possibility of the fullest satisfaction of those desires. Grouporganization gives a living, pulsing unity made up of the minds andhearts and seasoned judgments of vital men and women.  Suchorganization is capable of unbroken growth. And when this vine oflife, which sends its roots where every two or three are gatheredtogether, has rooted itself in the neighborhood, faithful care,sedulous watching, loving ministration will appear with it, will bethe natural way of living.  Its impalpable bonds hold us together,and although we may differ on countless questions, instead offlying asunder we work out the form in political life which willshelter us and supply our needs.  Faithfulness to the neighborhoodbond must take the place of allegiance to party. Loyalty to a partyis loyalty to a thing -- we want a living politics in which loyaltyis always intrinsic. And from the strength of this living bondshall come the power of our united life. Always the actor, neverthe spectator, is the rule of the new democracy. Always the sharer,never the giver or the receiver, is the order of our new life.   Do you think the neighborhood group too puny to cope with thisgiant towering above us, drunk with the blood of its many triumphs?The young David went out to conquer Goliath, strong in theconviction of his power. Cannot our cause justify an equal faith?  Is our daily life profane and only so far as we rise out of it dowe approach the sacred life? Then no wonder politics are what theyhave become. But this is not the creed of men to-day: we believe inthe sacredness of all our life; we believe that Divinity is foreverincarnating in humanity, and so we believe in Humanity and thecommon daily life of all men.