THE NEW STATEBy Mary Parker FollettThe Occupational Group:Chapter XXVIIIPolitical PluralismALL that I have written has been based on the assumption of theunifying state.  Moreover I have spoken of neighborhoodorganization as if it were possible to take it for granted that theneighborhood group is to be the basis of the new state. The truthof both these assumptions is denied by some of our most ablethinkers.  The unified state is now discredited in many quarters.Syndicalists, guild socialists, some of the Liberals in England,some of the advocates of occupational representation in America,and a growing school of writers who might be called politicalpluralists are throwing the burden of much proof upon the state,and are proposing group organization as the next step in politicalmethod. To some the idea of the state is abhorrent. One writersays, "The last hundred years marked in all countries the beginningof the dissolution of the State and of the resurrection ofcorporate life [trade unions etc.] ...  In the face of this growthof syndicalism in every direction, . . . it is no longerventuresome to assert that the State is dead."  Others like to keep the word "state" but differ much as to theposition it is to occupy in the new order: to some it seems to bemerely a kind of mucilage to keep the various groups together; withothers the state is to hold the ring while different groups fightout their differences. Still other thinkers, while seeing the opendoor to skepticism in regard to the state, are nevertheless notready to pass through, but, preserving the instinct and thereverence for the unity of the state, propose as the most immediateobject of our study how the unity can be brought about, what is tobe the true and perfect bond of union between the multiple groupsof our modern life. All these thinkers, differing widely as theydo, yet may be roughly classed together as the upholders of amultiple group organization as the basis for a new state.  This movement is partly a reaction against an atomisticsovereignty, the so-called theory of "subjective" rights, a"senseless" geographical representation, a much beratedparliamentary system, and partly the wish to give industrialworkers a larger share in the control of industry and ingovernment.  The opposition to "numerical representation" has been growing forsome time. We were told thirty years ago by Le Prins thatvocational representation is "the way out of the domination of themajority," that the vocational group is the "natural" group"spontaneously generated in the womb of a nation." Twenty-fiveyears ago Benoist said that the state must recognize privateassociations: universities, chambers of commerce, professionalassociations, societies of agriculture, syndicates of workmen - "enun mot tout ce qui a corps et vie dans la nation." If the state isto correspond to reality, it must recognize, Benoist insisted, allthis group life, all these interests, within it.  Moreover. heurged, with our present pulverized suffrage, with sovereigntydivided among millions, we are in a state of anarchy; only grouprepresentation will save us from "la force stupide de nombre."  M.Leon Duguit has given us a so-called "objective" theory of lawwhich means for many people a new conception of the state.  Many say that it is absurd for representation to be based on themere chance of residence as is the case when the geographicaldistrict is the unit.  The territorial principle is going, we aretold, and that of similar occupational interests will take itsplace. Again some people are suggesting that both principles shouldbe recognized m our government: that one house in Parliamentrepresent geographical areas, the other occupations [1]. No one hasyet, however, made any proposal of this kind definite enough toserve as a basis of discussion.     1. Leon Duguit, Graham Wallis, Arthur Christensen, Norman     Angell, etc.  Syndicalism demands the abolition of the "state" while -- throughits organization of the syndicate of workers, the union ofsyndicates of the same town or region and the federation of theseunions -- it erects a system of its own controlled entirely by theworkers. Syndicalism has gained many adherents lately because ofthe present reaction against socialism.  People do not want theServile State and, therefore, many think they do not want anystate.  In England a new school is arising which is equally opposed tosyndicalism and to the bureaucracy of state socialism. Or rather ittakes half of each. Guild socialism believes in state ownership ofthe means of production, but that the control of each industry or"guild" --- appointment of officers, hours and conditions of worketc. -- should be vested in the membership of the industry. Thesyndicalists throw over the state entirely, the guild socialistsbelieve in the "co-management" of the state. There are to be twosets of machinery side by side but quite distinct: that based onthe occupational group will be concerned with economicconsiderations, the other with "political" considerations, thefirst culminating in a national Guild Congress, and the second inthe State [1].     1. The fatal flaw of guild socialism is this separation of       economics and politics. First, the interests of citizenship     and guild-membership are not distinct; secondly, in any proper     system of occupational representation every one should be     included -- vocational representation should not be trade     representation; third, as long as you call the affairs of the     guilds "material," and say that the politics of the state     should be purified of financial interests, you burn every     bridge which might make a unity of financial interests and     sound state policy.  Guild socialism, however, because it is     a carefully worked out plan for the control of industry by     those who take part in it, is one of the most well worth     considering of the proposals at present before us.  "Guild Socialism," edited by A. R. Orage, gives in some detailthis systematic plan already familiar to readers of the _New Age_. A later book of the same school "Authority, Liberty and Function,"by Ramiro de Maeztu, concerns itself less with detail and more withthe philosophical basis of the new order. The value of this bookconsists in its emphasis on the functional principle [2].     2. See G. D. H. Cole, "The World of Labor," for the relation     of trade unionism to guild socialism.  Mr. Ernest Barker of Oxford, although he formulates no definitesystem, is a political pluralist.  John Neville Figgis makes an important contribution to pluralism[3], and although he has a case to plead for the church, he isequally emphatic that all the local groups which really make ourlife should be fostered and given an increased authority.     3. See especially "Churches in the Modern State" and "Studies     in Political Thought from Gerson to Grotius."  In America vocational representation has many distinguishedadvocates, among them Professor Felix Adler and Professor H. A.Overstreet.  Mr. Herbert Croly, who has given profound thought tothe trend of democracy, advocates giving increased power and legalrecognition to the powerful groups growing up within the state.Mr. Harold Laski is a pronounced political pluralist, especially inhis emphasis on the advantage of multiple, varied and freelydeveloping groups for the enrichment and enhancement of our wholelife. Mr. Laski's book, "Studies in the Problem of Sovereignty," isone of the most thought-stimulating bits of modern politicalwriting: it does away with the fetish of the abstract state -- itis above all an attempt to look at things as they are rather thanas we imagine them to be; it shows that states are not supreme bystriking examples of organizations within the state claiming andwinning the right to refuse obedience to the state; it sees thestrength and the variety of our group life to-day as a significantfact for political method; it is a recognition, to an extent, ofthe group principle -- it sees that sovereignty is not in people asa mass; it pleads for a revivification of local life, and finallyit shows us, implicitly, not only that we need to-day a new state,but that the new state must be a great moral force [1].     1. See also Mr. Laski's articles: "The Personality of     Associations," Harv. Law Rev. 29, 404-26, and "Early History     of the Corporation in England," Harv. Law Rev.: 30, 561-588.     This is the kind of work which is breaking the way for a new     conception of politics.  Perhaps the most interesting contribution of the pluralists istheir clear showing that "a single unitary state with a singlesovereignty" is not true to the facts of life to-day. Mr. Barkersays, "Every state is something of a federal society and containsdifferent national groups, different churches, different economicorganizations, each exercising its measure of control over itsmembers." The following instances are cited to show the presenttendency of different groups to claim autonomy:  1. Religious groups are claiming rights as groups. Many churchmenwould like to establish the autonomy of the church. It isimpossible to have undenominational instruction in the schools ofEngland because of the claims of the church.  2. There is a political movement towards the recognition ofnational groups. The state in England is passing Home Rule Acts andWelsh Disestablishment Acts to meet the claims of national groups."All Europe is Convulsed with a struggle of which one object is aregrouping of men in ways which will fulfil national ideals."  3. "The Trade-Unions claim to be free groups." "Trade-unions haverecovered from Parliament more than they have lost in the courts."  Let us consider the arguments of the pluralist school, as theyform the most interesting, the most suggestive and the mostimportant theory of politics now before us. It seems to me thatthere are four weaknesses in the pluralist school [1] which must becorrected before we can take from them the torch to light us on ourpolitical way: (1) some of the pluralists ostensibly found theirbooks on pragmatic philosophy and yet in their inability toreconcile the distributive and collective they do not accept thelatest teachings of pragmatism, for pragmatism does not end with adistributive pluralism, (2) the movement is in part a reaction toa misunderstood Hegelianism, (3) many of the pluralists areprofessed followers of medieval doctrine, (4) their thinking is notbased on a scientific study of the group, which weakens the forceof their theories of "objective" rights and sovereignty, much asthese latter are an advance on our old theories of "subjective"rights and a sovereignty based on an atomistic conception ofsociety.     1. It must be understood that all I say does not apply to all     the pluralists. For the sake of brevity I consider them as a     school although they differ widely. Moreover, for convenience     I am using the word pluralist roughly and in a sense     inaccurately to include all those who are advocating a     multiple group organization as the basis of a new state. Most     of these agree in making the group rather than the individual     the unit of politics, in their support of group "rights," the     "consent" of the group, the "balance" of groups, and in their     belief that "rights" should be based on function. But     syndicalists and guild socialists are not strictly pluralists     since they build up a system based on the occupational group;     yet the name is not wholly inapplicable, for, since the guild     socialists base their state on balancing groups, that state     cannot be called a unified state. It is too early yet to speak     of this school with entire accuracy, and in fact there is no     "school."  First, the underlying problem of pluralism and pragmatism is, asJames proclaims, the relation of "collective" and "distributive."The problem of to-day, we all agree, is the discovery of the kindof federalism which will make the parts live fully in the whole,the whole live fully in the parts. But this is the central problemof philosophy which has stirred the ages. The heart of James'difficulty was just this: how can many consciousnesses be at thesame time one consciousness? How can the same identical factexperience itself so diversely? How can you be the absolute and theindividual? It is the old, old struggle which has enmeshed so many,which some of our philosophers have transcended by the deeperintuitions, sure that life is a continuous flow and not spasmodicappearance, disappearance and reappearance. James struggled longwith this problem, but the outcome was sure. His spirit could notbe bound by intellectualistic logic, the logic of identity.  He wasfinally forced to adopt a higher form of rationality. He gave upconceptualistic logic "fairly, squarely and irrevocably," and knewby deepest inner testimony that "states of consciousness canseparate and combine themselves freely and keep their own identityunchanged while forming parts of simultaneous fields of experienceof wider scope." James always saw the strung-along universe, but healso saw the unifying principle which is working towards its goal."That secret," he tells us, "of a continuous life which theuniverse knows by heart and acts on every instant cannot be acontradiction incarnate. . . . Our intelligence must keep onspeaking terms with the universe.  When James found that the "all-form" and the "each-forms" are notincompatible, he found the secret of federalism.  It is our task towork out in practical politics this speculative truth which thegreat philosophers have presented to us. The words absolute andindividual veil it to us, but substitute state and individual andthe problem comes down to the plane of our actual working everydaylife. It may be interesting to read philosophy, but the thrillingthing for every man of us to do is to make it come true. We may beheartened by our sojourns on Sinai, but no man may live his life inthe clouds. And what does pragmatism mean if not just this? We canonly, as James told us again and again, understand the collectiveand distributive by living. Life is the true revealer: I can neverunderstand the whole by reason, only when the heart-beat of thewhole throbs through me as the pulse of my own being.  If we in our neighborhood group live James' philosophy of thecompounding of consciousness, if we obey the true doctrine, thateach individual is not only himself but the state -- for thefullness of life overflows -- then will the perfect form offederalism appear and express itself, for then we have the spiritof federalism creating its own form. Political philosophers talk ofthe state, but there is no state until we make it. It is puretheory. We, every man and woman to-day, must create his small groupfirst, and then, through its compounding with other groups, itascends from stage to stage until the federal state appears. Thusdo we understand by actual living how collective experiences canclaim identity with their constituent parts, how "your experienceand mine can be members of a world-experience." In our neighborhoodgroups we claim identity with the whole collective will, at thatpoint we are the collective will.  Unless multiple sovereignty can mean ascending rather thanparallel groups it will leave out the deepest truth whichphilosophy has brought us. But surely the political pluralists whoare open admirers of James will refuse with him to stay enmeshed insterile intellectualism, in the narrow and emasculated logic ofidentity.  Confessedly disciples of James, will they not carrytheir discipleship a step further? Have they not with James a wishfor a world that does not fall into "discontinuous pieces," for "ahigher denomination than that distributed, strung-along and flowingsort of reality which we finite beings [now] swim in"? Their groupsmust be the state each at its separate point. When they see thistruth clearly, then the leadership to which their insight entitlesthem will be theirs.  I have said that the political pluralists are fighting amisunderstood Hegelianism. Do they adopt the crudely popularconception of the Hegelian state as something "above and beyond"men, as a separate entity virtually independent of men? Such aconception is fundamentally wrong and wholly against the spirit ofHegel. As James found collective experience not independent ofdistributive experience, as he reconciled the two through the"compounding of consciousness," so Hegel's related parts receivedtheir meaning only in the conception of total relativity. The soulof Hegelianism is total relativity, but this is the essence of thecompounding of consciousness. As for James the related parts andtheir relations appear simultaneously and with equal reality, so inHegel's total relativity: the members of the state in their rightrelation to one another appear in all the different degrees ofreality together as one whole total relativity -- never sundered,never warring against the true Self, the Whole.  But there is the real Hegel and the Hegel who misapplied his owndoctrine, who preached the absolutism of a Prussian State. Greenand Bosanquet in measure more or less full taught the true Hegeliandoctrine. But for a number of years the false leadings of Hegelhave been uppermost in people's minds, and there has been areaction to their teaching due to the panic we all feel at the merethought of an absolute monarch and an irresponsible state. Thepresent behavior of Prussia of course tends to increase the panic,and the fashion of jeering at Hegel and his "misguided" followersis widespread.  But while many English writers are raging againstHegelianism, at the same time the English are pouring out inunstinted measure themselves and their substance to establish onearth Hegel's absolute in the actual form of an InternationalLeague!  The political pluralists whom we are now considering, believingthat a collective and distributive sovereignty cannot existtogether, throw overboard collective sovereignty.  When they acceptthe compounding of consciousness taught by their own master, James,then they will see that true Hegelianism finds its actualized formin federalism.  Perhaps they would be able to do this sooner if they could ridthemselves of the Middle Ages! Many of the political pluralistsdeliberately announce that they are accepting medieval doctrine.  In the Middle Ages the group was the political unit. The medievalman was always the member of a group -- of the guild in the town,of the manor in the country. But this was followed by the theory ofthe individual not as a member of a group but as a member of anation, and we have always considered this on the whole an advancestep.  When, therefore, the separate groups are again proposed asthe political units, we are going back to a political theory whichwe have long outgrown and which obviously cramps the individual. Itis true that the individual as the basis of government has remainedan empty theory. The man with political power has been the rich andstrong man. There has been little chance for the individual as anindividual to become a force in the state. In reaction against suchselfish autocracy people propose a return to the Middle Ages. Thisis not the solution. Now is the critical moment. If we imitate theMiddle Ages and adopt political pluralism we lose our chance toinvent our own forms for our larger ideas.  Again, balancing groups were loosely held together by what hasbeen called a federal bond. Therefore we are to look to themedieval empire for inspiration in forming the modern state. Butthe union of church and guild, boroughs and shires of the MiddleAges seems to me neither to bear much resemblance to a modernfederal state nor to approach the ideal federal state. And if welearn anything from medieval decentralization -- guild and churchand commune -- it is that political and economic power cannot beseparated.  Much as we owe the Middle Ages, have we not progressed sincethen? Are our insights, our ideals, our purposes at all the same?Medieval theory, it is true, had the conception of the livinggroup, and this had a large influence on legal theory [1]. Alsomedieval theory struggled from first to last to reconcile itsnotion of individual freedom [2], the patent fact of manifoldgroups, and the growing notion of a sovereign state. Our problem itis true is the same to-day, but the Middle Ages hold more warningsthan lessons for us. While there was much that was good about themedieval guilds, we certainly do not want to go back to all theweaknesses of medieval cities: the jealousies of the guilds, theirselfishness, the unsatisfactory compromises between them, theimpossibility of sufficient agreement either to maintain internalorder or to pursue successful outside relations.     1. From this was taken, Gierke tells us, modern German     "fellowship."     2. And the individual was certainly as prominent in Medieval     theory as the community of individuals, a fact which the     vigorous corporate life of the Middle Ages may lead us to     forget.  The Middle Ages had not worked out any form by which the partscould be related to the whole without the result either ofdespotism of the more powerful parts or anarchy of all the parts. Moreover, in the Middle Ages it was true on the whole that yourrelation to your class separated you from other classes: you couldnot belong to many groups at once. Status was the basis of theMiddle Ages. This is exactly the tendency we must avoid in any planfor the direct reprsentation of industrial workers in the state.  Is our modern life entirely barren of ideas with which to meetits own problems? Must twentieth century thought with all therichness which our intricately complex life has woven into it tryto force itself into the embryonic molds of the Middle Ages?  The most serious error, however, of the political pluralists isone we are all making: we have not begun a scientific study ofgroup psychology.  No one yet knows enough of the laws ofassociated life to have the proper foundations for politicalthinking. The pluralists apotheosize the group but do not study thegroup. They talk of sovereignty without seeking the source ofsovereignty.  In the next three chapters I shall consider what the recentrecognition of the group, meagre as it is at present, teaches us inregard to pluralism. Pluralism is the dominant thought today inphilosophy, in politics, in economics, in jurisprudence, insociology, in many schemes of social reorganization proposed bysocial workers, therefore we must consider it carefully -- what itholds for us, what it must guard against.