THE NEW STATEBy Mary Parker FollettThe Occupational Group:Chapter XXXPolitical Pluralism and FunctionalismThe Service State vs. the "Sovereign State"THE idea at the bottom of occupational representation which has wonit many adherents is that of the interdependence of function.  Mostof the people who advocate vocational representation believe inwhat they call an organic democracy.  This leads them to believethat the group not the individual should be the unit of government:a man in an industry is to vote not as an individual but as adepartment member because he is thus representing his function. Butman has many functions and then there is something left over. It isjust because our place in the whole can never be bounded by any onefunction that we cannot accept the organism of the Middle Ages, theorganic society of certain sociologists, or the "organic democracy"of the upholders of occupational representation.  Man has many functions or rather he is the interplay of manyfunctions. The child grows to manhood through interpenetrating --with his family, at school, at work, with his play group, with hisart group: the carpenter may join the Arts and Crafts to find therean actualization of spirit for which he is fitted, and so on and soon. All the different sides of our nature develop by the process ofcompounding. If you shut a man up in his occupation, you refuse himthe opportunity of full growth. The task has been given to humanityto "Know thyself," but man cannot know himself without knowing themany sides of his self. His essential self is the possibility ofthe multiple expression of spirit.  We see this principle operating every day in our own lives: wecannot do one thing well by doing one thing alone. Theinterrelations are so manifold that each of us does far more thanhe wishes, not because our tendency is a senseless ramifying, butbecause we cannot do our own job well unless we do many otherthings: we do not take on the extra activities as an extension ofour life, but simply as an intensification of our life at the pointof our particular interest. Ideally one should fulfil all thefunctions of man in order to perform one function. No one ought toteach without being a parent! etc. etc. Man must identify himselfwith humanity. The great lesson which the pluralist school has toteach is that man cannot do this imaginatively but only actually,through his group relations. What it leaves out is that the task ismanifold and infinite because man must identify himself with amanifold and infinite number of groups before he has embracedhumanity.  Society, however, does not consist merely of the union of allthese various groups. There is a more subtle process going on --the interlocking of groups. And in these interlocking groups wehave not only the same people taking up different activities, butactually representing different interests.  In some groups I may bean employer, in others an employee. I can be a workman and astockholder. Men have many loyalties. It is no longer true that Ibelong to such a class and must always identify myself with itsinterests. I may belong at the same time to the college club andthe business women's club, to the Players' League (representing theactor's point of view) and to the Drama Association (representingthe playgoer's point of view). I not only thus get opposite pointsof view, but I myself can contribute to two opposite points ofview. The importance of this has not been fully estimated. I mayhave to say the collective I or we first of my basket-ball team,next of my trade-union, then of my church club or citizens' leagueor neighborhood association, and the lines may cross and recrossmany times. It is just these cross lines that are of inestimablevalue in the development of society.  Thus while two groups may be competing, certain members of thesegroups may be working together for the satisfaction of someinterest. This is recognized by law. A man can be a member ofdifferent corporations.  Our possibility of association is notexhausted by contributing to the production of one legal person, wemay help to create many different legal persons, each with anentirely different set of liabilities. Then there may be some sortof relation with a definite legal status existing between thesebodies: I as member of one corporation may have relation withmyself as member of another corporation. We see this clearly in thecase of corporations, but it is what is taking place everywhere,this interlocking and overlapping of groups, and is I feel one ofthe neglected factors in the argument of those who are advocatingoccupational representation. What we are working for is a plasticsocial organization: not only in the sense of a flexibleinteraction between the groups, but in the sense of an elasticitywhich makes it possible for individuals to change constantly theirrelations, their groups, without destroying social cohesion. Vocational representation would tend to crystallize us intodefinite permanent groups.  The present advocacy of organic democracy or "functionalism" isobviously, and in many cases explicitly, a reaction to"individualism": the functional group must be the unit because theindividual is so feared. I agree with the denunciation of theindividual if you mean the man who seeks only his own advantage.But have we not already seen that that is not the true individual? And do we not see now that man is a multiple being? Life is arecognition of multitudinous multiplicity. Politics must be shapedfor that. Our task is to make straight the paths for the coming ofthe Lord- - the true Individual. Man is struggling for the freedomof his nature. What is his nature? Manifold being. You must have asmany different kinds of groups as there are powers in man -- thisdoes away with "organic democracy."  The state cannot be composed of groups because no group nor anynumber of groups can contain the whole of me, and the ideal statedemands the whole of me. No one group can seize the whole of me; noone group can seize any part of me in a mechanical way so thathaving taken one-tenth there are nine-tenths left. My nature is notdivisible into so many parts as a house into so many rooms. Mygroup uses me and then the whole of me is still left to give to thewhole. This is the constant social process. Thus my citizenship issomething bigger than my membership in a vocational group. Vocational representation does not deal with men -- it deals withmasons and doctors. I may be a photographer but how little of mypersonality does my photography absorb. We are concerned with whatis left over -- is that going to be lost? The whole of every manmust go into his citizenship.  Some of the guild socialists tell us, however, that a man has asmany "rights" as he has functions: a shoemaker is also a father anda rate-payer. But they do not give us any plan for the politicalrecognition of these various functions. How the father _as_ fatheris to be represented in the state we are not told. The state willnever get the whole of a man by his trying to divide himself intoparts. A man is not a father at home, a citizen at the polls, anartisan at work, a business man in his office, a follower of Christat church. He is at every moment a Christian, a father, a citizen,a worker, if he is at any time these in a true sense. We want thewhole man in politics. Clever business men are not engagingworkers, they need men, our churches need men, the insistent demandof our political life is for men.  As ideally every function should include every other, as everypower of which I am capable should go into my work, occupationalrepresentation might do for the millennium, but it is not fittedfor the limitations of man in 1918.  I am advocating throughout the group principle, but not the groupas the political unit. We do not need to swing forever between theindividual and the group. We must devise some method of using bothat the same time. Our present method is right so far as it is basedon individuals, but we have not yet found the true individual. Thegroups are the indispensable means for the discovery of self byeach man. The individual finds himself in a group; he has no poweralone or in a crowd. One group creates me, another group creates meand so on and on. The different groups bring into appearance themultiple sides of me. I go to the polls to express the multiple manwhich the groups have created. I am to express the whole from myindividual point of view, and that is a multiple point of viewbecause of my various groups. But my relation to the state isalways as an individual. The group is a method merely. It cannotsupplant either the individual on the one hand or the state on theother. The unit of society is the individual coming into being andfunctioning through groups of a more and more federated nature.Thus the unit of society is neither the group nor theparticularist-ndividual, but the group-individual.  The question is put baldly to us by the advocates of vocationalrepresentation -- "Do you want representation of numbers orrepresentation of interests?" They are opposed to the former, whichthey call democracy, because "democracy" means to them the"sovereignty of the people," which means the reign of the crowd.Democracy and functionalism are supposed to be opposed. An industryis to be composed not of individuals but of departments; likewisethe state is to be a union of industries or occupations.  Thepresent state is conceived as a crowd-state [1]. If the state isand must necessarily be a crowd, no wonder it is being condemnedtoday in many quarters. But I do not believe this is thealternative we are facing -- the crowd-state or the group-state. Wewant the representation of individuals, but of true individuals,group-individuals [2].     1. The French syndicalists avowedly do not want democracy     because it "mixes the classes," because, as they say,     interests and aims mingle in one great mass in which all true     significance is lost.     2. See p.184.  The best part of pluralism is that it is a protest against thedomination of numbers; the trouble is that it identifies numberswith individuals. Some plan must be devised by which we put theindividual at the centre of our political system, without anatomistic sovereignty, and yet by which we can get the whole of theindividual. I am proposing for the moment the individual the unit,the group the method, but this alone does not cover all that isnecessary. In the French syndicalist organization every syndicate,whatever its size, is represented by a single individual. In thisway power is prevented from falling into the hands of a strongfederation like the miners, but of course this often means minorityrule. In England the Trade Union Congress can be dominated by thefive large trades, a state of things which has been much complainedof there.  But we must remember that while the syndicalists get ridof majority rule, that is, that the majority of individuals nolonger govern, they merely give the rule to the majority of groups.They have not given up the _principle_ of majority rule, theysimply apply it differently. There is a good deal of syndicalistthinking that is not a penetrating analysis which presents us withnew principles, but a mere taking of ideas long accepted in regardto the individual and transferring them to the field of the group.I have tried to show in chapter XVII, "Democracy Not the Majority,"that the pressing matter in politics is not whether we wantmajority rule or not, but to decide upon those methods ofassociation by which we get the greatest amount of integration. Thesyndicalists are right, we do not want a crowd, but I do not thinkmost syndicalists have discovered the true use of the true group.  The task before us now is to think out the way in which the groupmethod can be a regular part of our political system -- itsrelation to the individual on the one hand and to the state on theother. No man should have a share in government as an isolatedindividual, but only as bound up with others: the individual mustbe the unit, but an individual capable of entering into genuinegroup relations and of using these for an expanding scale ofsocial, political and international life.  The best part of functionalism is that it presents to us theService State in the place of the old Sovereign State. This has twomeanings: (1) that the state is created by the actual services ofevery man, that every man will get his place in the state throughthe service rendered: (2) that the state itself is tested by theservices it renders, both to its members and to the world-community[1]. The weakness of functionalism, as so far developed, is that ithas provided no method for all the functions of man to be includedin the state. The essence of democracy is the expression of everyman in his multiple nature.     1. This is the basis of Duguit's international law -- the     place of a state in an international league is to be     determined directly by services rendered  To sum up: no one group can enfold me, because of my multiplenature.  This is the blow to the theory of occupationalrepresentation.  But also no number of groups can enfold me. Thisis the reason why the individual must always be the unit ofpolitics, as group organization must be its method. We _find_ theindividual through the group, we _use_ him always as the trueindividual -- the undivided one -- who, living link of livinggroup, is yet never embedded in the meshes but is forever free forevery new possibility of a forever unfolding life.