THE NEW STATEby Mary Parker FollettChapter XXXIVThe Moral State and Creative CitizenshipWE see now that the state as the appearance of the federalprinciple must be more than a coordinating agency.  It must appearas the great moral leader.  Its supreme function is moral ordering. What is morality?  The fulfillment of relation by man to man, sinceit is impossible to conceive an isolated man: the father and motherappear in our mind and with the three the whole infinite series.The state is the ordering of this infinite series into their rightrelations that the greatest possible welfare of the total may beworked out.  This ordering of relations is morality in its essenceand completeness.  The state must gather up into itself all themoral power of its day, and more than this, as our relations arewidening constantly it must be the explorer which discovers thekind of ordering, the kind of grouping, which best expresses itsintent.   But "things are rotten in Denmark." The world is at present amoral bankrupt, for nations are immoral and men worship theirnations. We have for centuries been thinking out the morals ofindividuals. The morality of the state must now have equalconsideration. We spring to that duty to-day. We have the tencommandments for the individual; we want the ten commandments forthe state.   How is the state to gain moral and spiritual authority?   Only through its citizens in their growing understanding of thewidening promise of relation. The neighborhood group feeds theimagination because we have daily to consider the wants of all inorder to make a synthesis of those wants; we have to recognize therights of others and adapt ourselves to them. Men must recognizeand unify difference and then the moral law appears in all itsmajesty in concrete form. This is the universal striving. This isthe trend of all nature -- the harmonious unifying of all. The callof the moral law is constantly to recognize this. Our neighborhoodgroup gives us preeminently the opportunity for moral training, theassociated groups continue it, the goal, the infinite goal, theemergence of the all-inclusive state which is the visibleappearance of the total relativity of man in all right connectionsand articulations.  The state accumulates moral power only through the spiritualactivity of its citizens. There is no state except through me. James' deep-seated antagonism to the idealists is because of theirassertion that the absolute is, always has been and always will be.The contribution of pragmatism is that we must work out theabsolute. You are drugging yourselves, cries James, the absolute isreal as far as you make it real, as far as you bring forth intangible, concrete form all its potentialities. In the same way wehave no state until we make one. This is the teaching of the newpsychology. We have not to "postulate" all sorts of things as thephilosophers do ("organic actuality of the moral order" etc.), wehave to _live_ it; if we can make a moral whole then we shall knowwhether or not there is one.  We cannot become the stateimaginatively, but only actually through our group relations.Stamped with the image of All-State-potentiality we must be forevermaking the state.  We are pragmatists in politics as the new schoolof philosophy is in religion: just as they say that we are one withGod not by prayer and communion alone, but by doing the God-deedevery moment, so we are one with the state by actualizing thelatent state at every instant of our lives. As God appears onlythrough us, so is the state made visible through the political man.We must gird up our loins, we must light our lamp and set forth, wemust _do_ it.  The federal state can be the moral state only through its beingbuilt anew from hour to hour by the activity of all its members. Wehave had within our memory three ideas of the individual's relationto society: the individual as deserving "rights" _from_ society,next with a duty _to_ society, and now the idea of the individualas an activity _of_ society. Our relation to society is so closethat there is no room for either rights or duties. This means a newethics and a new politics. Citizenship is not a right nor aprivilege nor a duty, but an activity to be exercised every momentof the time. Democracy does not exist unless each man is doing hispart fully every minute, unless every one is taking his share inbuilding the state-to-be. This is the trumpet call to men to-day.A creative citizenship must be made the force of American politicallife, a trained, responsible citizenship always in control creatingalways its own life. In most of the writing on American politics wefind the demand for a "creative statesmanship" as the most pressingneed of America to-day. It is indeed true that with so muchcrystallized conservatism and chaotic radicalism we need leadershipand a constructive leadership, but the doctrine of true democracyis that every man is and must be a creative citizen.  We are now awaking to this need.  In the past the Americanconception of government has been a machine-made not a man-madething. We have wanted a perfect machine which could be set goinglike an international exhibition by pressing the button, but who isgoing to press the button?  We have talked about the public withoutthinking that we were the public, of public opinion as somethingquite distinct from any opinion of our own. It is partly becausemen have not wanted the trouble of governing themselves that theyhave put all their faith in "good" officials and "good" charters."I hate this school, I wish it would burn up," wrote a boy home,"there's too much old self-government about it, you can't have anyfun." Many of us have not wanted that kind of government.  The idea of the state as a collection of units has fatally misledus in regard to our duty as citizens. A man often thinks of hisshare in the collective responsibility for Boston as a 1/500,000part of the whole responsibility. This is too small a part tointerest him, and therefore he often disregards such aninfinitesimal duty altogether. Of course we tell him about littledrops of water, little grains of sand etc., but hitherto sucheloquence has produced little effect. This is because it is untrue.We must somehow make it clear that the part of every man in a greatcity is not analogous to the grain of sand in the desert, it is nota 1/500,000 part of the whole duty. It a part so bound up withevery other part that no fraction of a whole can represent it. Itis like the key of a piano, the value of which is not in its being1/56 of all the notes, but in its infinite relations to all theother notes. If that note is lacking every other note loses itsvalue.  Another twist in our ideas which has tended to reduce our senseof personal responsibility has been that we have often thought ofdemocracy as a happy method by which all our particular limitationsare lost sight of in the general strength. Matthew Arnold said,"Democracy is a force in which the concert of a great number of menmakes up for the weakness of each man taken by himself." But thereis no mysterious value in people conceived of all together. A lotof ignorant or a lot of bad people do not acquire wisdom and virtuethe moment we conceive them collectively.  There is no alchemy bywhich the poornesses and weaknesses of the individual gettransmuted in the group; there is no trick by which we can losethem in the whole. The truth is that all that the individual has oris enhances society, all that the individual lacks, detracts fromsociety. The state will become a splendid thing when each one of usbecomes a splendid individual. Democracy does not mean being lostin the mass, it means the contribution of every power I possess tosocial uses. The individual is not lost in the whole, he makes thewhole.  A striking exception to the attitude of the average American inthe matter of his personal responsibility was Mr. John JayChapman's visit to Coatesville, Pennsylvania, to do penance for"that blot on American history" -- the burning a Negro to death inthe public square of Coatesville -- because he felt that "it wasnot the wickedness of Coatesville but the wickedness of allAmerica."  But there are signs to-day of a new spirit among us. We havebegun to be restless under our present political forms: we aredemanding that the machine give way to the man, we want a world ofmen governed by the will of men. What signs have we that we are nowready for a creative citizenship?  Every one is claiming to-day a share in the larger life ofsociety. Each of us wants to pour forth in community use the lifethat we feel welling up within us: Citizens' associations, civicclubs and forums are springing up every day in every part of thecountry. Men are seeking through direct government a closer sharein law-making.  The woman suffrage movement, the labor movement,are parts of this vital and irresistible current. They have notcome from surface springs, their sources are deep in the lifeforces of our age. There is a more fundamental cause of our presentunrest than the superficial ones given for the woman movement, orthe selfish ones given for our labor troubles: it is not the"demand for justice" from women nor the "economic greed" of labor,but the desire for one's place, for each to give his share, foreach to control his own life -- this is the underlying thoughtwhich is so profoundly moving both men and women today.  But a greater awakening has come since April, 1917. It has takenthe ploughshare of fire to reveal our true selves: this war isrunning the furrows deep in the hearts of men and turning updesires of which they were unconscious themselves in their days ofease. Men are flocking to Washington at the sacrifice of businessand personal interests willing to pour out their all for the greatstake of democracy; the moment came when the possession ofself-government was imperiled and all leapt forward ready to laydown their lives to preserve it.   This war has revealed the deeperself with its deeper wishes to every man and he sees that he prizesbeyond life the power to govern himself. Now is the moment to useall this rush of patriotism and devotion and love of liberty andwillingness to serve, and not let it sink back again into itshidden and subterranean depths. Let us develop the kind ofinstitutions which will call forth and utilize these powers andenergies for peace as for war, for the works of peace are gloriousif men can but see the goal. Let us make a fitting abiding placefor men's innate grandeur. Let us build high the walls of democracyand enlarge its courts for our daily dwelling.  Then must men understand that in peace as in war ours is to be alife of endeavor, of work, of conscious effort towards consciousends. The ordinary man is not to do his work and then play a littlein order to refresh himself, with the understanding that the worldof industry and the government of his country are to be run byexperts. They are to be run by him and he is to prepare himself totackle his job.  The leisure-time problem is not how the workmancan have more time for play, it is how he can have more time forassociation, to take his share in the integrated thought and willand responsibility which is to make the new world. The "goodcitizen" is not he who obeys the laws, but he who has an activesense of being an integral part of the state. This is the essenceand the basis of effective good citizenship. We are not part of anation because we are living within its boundaries, because we feelin sympathy with it and have accepted its ideas, because we havebecome naturalized. We are part of a nation only in so far as weare helping to make that nation.  For this we must provide methods by which every man is enabled totake his part. We are no longer to put business and politicalaffairs in the hands of one set of men and then appoint another setas watch-dogs over them, with the people at best a sort of chorusin the background, at the worst practically non-existent. But weare so to democratize our industrial and our political methods thatall will have a share in policy and in responsibility. Exhortationto good citizenship is useless. We get good citizenship by creatingthose forms within which good citizenship can operate, by making itpossible to acquire the habit of good citizenship by the practiceof good citizenship.  The neighborhood group gives the best opportunity for thetraining and for the practice of citizenship. The leader of aneighborhood group should be able to help every one discover hisgreatest ability, he should see the stimulus to apply, the path ofapproach, that the constituents of his neighborhood should notmerely serve, but should serve in exactly that way which will bestfit themselves into the community's needs. The system of warregistration where men and women record what they are best able todo, might, through the medium of the neighborhood group, be appliedto the whole country. The chief object of neighborhood organizationis not to right wrongs, as is often supposed, but to found morefirmly and build more widely the right.  Moreover, neighborhood organization gives us a definite objectivefor individual responsibility. We cannot understand our duty orperform our duty unless it is a duty to _something_. It is becauseof the erroneous notion that the individual is related to "society"rather than to a group or groups that we can trace much of our lackof responsibility. A man trusts vaguely that he is doing his dutyto "society," but such vagueness gets him nowhere.  There is no"society," and therefore he often does no duty. But let him onceunderstand that his duty is to his group -- to his neighborhoodgroup, to his industrial group -- and he will begin to see his dutyas a specific, concrete thing taking definite shape for him.  But my gospel is not for a moment of citizenship as a mere duty.We must bring to politics passion and joy. It is not through thecramping and stultification of desire that life is nobly lived, itis through seeing life in its fullness. We want to use the whole ofman. You cannot put some of his energies on one side and some onthe other and say some are good and some bad -- all are good andshould be put to good use. Men follow their passions and should doso, but they must purify their passions, educate them, disciplineand direct them. We turn our impulses to wrong uses, but ourimpulses are not wrong. The forces of life should be used, notstifled. It is not corruption, dishonesty, we have to fight; it isignorance, lack of insight, desires not transmuted. We want a statewhich will transmute the instincts of men into the energies of thenation.  You cannot dam the stream entirely, you can only see thatit flows so as to irrigate and fructify. It all comes down to ourfear of men. If we could believe in men, if we could see thatcircle which unites human passion and divine achievement as a haloround the head of each human being, then social and politicalreorganization would no longer be a hope but a fact. The oldindividualism feared men; the corner-stone of the new individualismis faith in men. We need a constructive faith and a robust faith,faith in men, m this world, in this day, in the Here and the Now.  From the belief of savages in the spirits who ruled their fate tothe "power outside ourselves that makes for righteousness," throughthe weak man's reliance on luck and the strong man's reliance onhis isolated individuality, we have had innumerable forms of themisunderstanding of responsibility. But all this is now changing.The distinguishing mark of our age is that we are coming to a keensense of personal responsibility, that we are taking upon ourselvesthe blame for all our evils, the charge for all our progress. Weare beginning to realize that the redemptive power is within thesocial bond, that we have creative evolution only throughindividual responsibility.  The old ways of thinking are breaking up. The New Life is beforeus. Are we ready? Are we making ourselves ready? A new man isneeded for the New Life -- a man who understands self-discipline,who understands training, who is willing to purge himself of hisparticularist desires, who is conscious of relations as the stuffof his existence.   To sum up this chapter: the moral state is the task of man. Thismust be achieved through the creative power of man as brought intovisibility and actuality through his group life. The great cosmicforce in the womb of humanity is latent in the group as itscreative energy; that it may appear the individual must do his dutyevery moment. We do not get the whole power of the group unlessevery individual is given full value, is giving full value.  It isthe creative spontaneity of each which makes life march onirresistibly to the purposes of the whole. Our social and politicalorganization must be such that this group life is possible. We hearmuch of "the wasted forces of our nation." The neighborhoodorganization movement is a movement to use some of the wastedforces of this nation -- it is the biggest movement yet conceivedfor conservation. Have we more "value" in forests and water-powerin America than in human beings? The new generation cries, "No,this release of the spiritual energy of human beings is to be thesalvation of the nation, for the life of all these human beings isthe nation." The success of democracy depends (1) upon the degreeof responsibility it is possible to arouse in every man and woman,(2) on the opportunity they are given to exercise thatresponsibility. The new democracy depends upon you and me. Itdepends upon you and me because there is no one else in the worldbut you and me. If I pledge myself to the new democracy and youpledge yourself to the new democracy, a new motor force will beborn in the world.  We need to-day new principles. We can reform and reform but allthis is on the surface. What we have got to do is to change some ofthe fundamental ideas of our American life. This is not beingdisloyal to our past, it is exactly the opposite. Let us be loyalto our inheritance and tradition, but let us understand what thatinheritance and tradition truly is. It is not _our_ tradition tostick to an outworn past, a conventional ideal, a rigid religion.We are children of men who have not been afraid of new continentsor new ideas. In our blood is the impulse to leap to the highest wecan see, as the wills of our fathers fixed themselves on theconvictions of their hearts. To spring forward and then to followthe path steadfastly is forever the duty of Americans. We must_live_ democracy.