THE NEW STATEby Mary Parker FollettThe Occupational Group:Chapter XXXIIIIncreasing Recognition of the Occupational GroupFROM the confessedly embryonic stage of thinking in which themovement for group organization still is, two principal questionshave emerged: (1) shall the groups form a pluralistic or a unifyingstate, (2) shall the economic group be the sole basis ofrepresentation? The first question I have tried to answer, thesecond offers greater difficulties with our present amount ofexperience.  Men often discuss the occupational vs. theneighborhood group on the pivotal question - which of these isnearest a man?  Benoist's plea for the occupational group was thatpolitics must represent _la vie_.  But, agreed as to that, we stillquestion whether the occupational group is the most completeembodiment of _la vie_.  It is not, however, necessary to balance the advantages ofneighborhood and occupational group, for I am not proposing thatthe neighborhood group take the place of the occupational.  We mayperhaps come to wish for an integration of neighborhood andindustrial groups -- and other groups too as their importance andusefulness demand -- as their "objective" value appears. In ourneighborhood group we shall find that we can correct many partialpoints of view which we get from our more specialized groups. Adirector of a corporation will be more valuable to his state andeven to his corporation if he is at the same time the member of aneighborhood group. It may be that we shall work out some machineryby which the neighborhood group can include the occupational group. All our functions must be expressed, but somewhere must come thatcoordination which will give them their real effectiveness.  We arenot yet ready to say what the machinery will be, only to recognizesome of the principles which should guide us in constructing thatmachinery.  The power of an individual is his power to live a vitalgroup life. The more your society is diversified in group life, thehigher the stage of civilization.  Perhaps the destiny of theneighborhood group is to interpret and correlate, to give fullsignificance and value to, all the spontaneous association whichour increasingly fuller and more varied life is constantlycreating. It may be that the neighborhood group is not so much to_include_ the others as to make each see its relation through everyother to every other [1]. The possible solution, mentioned above,of the two houses of our legislatures and parliaments dividingneighborhood and occupational representation, seems a little crudenow to our further analysis unless some practical integration isbeing worked out at the same time in the local unit. But all thismust be a matter of experiment and experience, of patient trial andopen-minded observation [2].     1. See pp. 199-201.     2 Some writers talk of trade representation vs. party     organization as if in the trade group you are rid of party.      Have they studied the politics of trade unionism?  In neither     the trade group nor the neighborhood group do you     automatically get rid of the party spirit.  That will be a     slow growth Indeed.  The salient fact, however, is that neighborhood and occupationalgroups, either independently or one through the other, must bothfind representation in the state. But we must remember that it isindustry which must be included in the state, not labor, but laborand capital. This war certainly shows us the importance of thegreat organizations of industry. Let them be integrated openly withthe state on the side of their public service, rather than allow aback-stairs connection on the side of their "interests." And letthem be integrated in such manner that labor itself is at lastincluded in our political organization. This will not be easy; asa matter of fact we have no more difficult, as we have no moreimportant, problem before us than the relation within the state ofone powerful organized body to another and of these bodies to thestate. The average American is against the growth of corporatebodies.  But this prejudice must go: we need strong corporatebodies not to compete with the state but to minister to the state.Individualism and concentrated authority have been struggling forsupremacy with us since the beginning of our government. From thebeginning of our government we have been seeking the synthesis ofthe two. That synthesis is to be found in the recognition oforganized groups, but not, I believe, by taking away power from thestate and giving to the group. Some of the pluralists, in theirreaction to the present fear of powerful groups, advocate thatgroups should be given more and more power. I agree with them sofar, but their implication is that we shall thereby have shorn theSamson locks of the state. This I do not believe we want to do.  Every one sees the necessity to-day of the increase of statecontrol as a war measure, but some tell us that we should guardagainst its dangers by giving to certain organizations within thestate enough power to "balance" the state. I insist that balancecan never be the aim of sound political method. We must firstchange our conception of the state -- substitute the Service Statefor the Sovereign State -- then methods must be devised withinwhich such new conception can operate. We should, indeed, give moreand more power to the groups, or rather, because we can never"give" power, we should recognize all the power which springs upspontaneously within the state, and seek merely those methods bywhich that self-generating power shall tend immediately to becomepart of the strength of the state.  How absurd our logic has been. We knew that it took strong men tomake a strong state; we did not realize that those groups whichrepresent the whole industry and business of the country need notbe rivals of the state, but must be made to contribute to thestate, must be the means by which the state becomes great andpowerful at the same time that it uses that power for thewell-being and growth of all.  Our timidity has been but thereflection of our ignorance. A larger understanding is what we needto-day. There is no need to condemn the state, as do thepluralists; there is no need to condemn our great corporate bodies,as do their opponents. But full of distrust we shall surely be, onone side or the other, until we come truly to understand a stateand to create a state which ministers continuously to its parts,while its parts from hour to hour serve only the enhancement of itslife, and through it, the enhancement of the life of its humblestmember.  The tendency to which we have long been subject, to do away witheverything which stood between man and the state, must go, but thatdoes not mean that we must fly to the other extreme and do awaywith either the individual or the state. One of the chiefweaknesses of political pluralism is that it has so many of theearmarks of a reaction -- the truth is that we have groups _and_man _and_ the state, all to deal with.  Neighborhood groups, economic groups, unifying groups, these havebeen my themes, and yet the point which I wish to emphasize is notthe kind of group, but that the group whatever its nature shall bea genuine group, that we can have no genuine state at all whichdoes not rest on genuine groups. Few trade-unionists in demandingthat their organization shall be the basis of the new state examinethat organization to see what right it has to make this demand.Most trade-unionists are satisfied in their own organizations witha centralized government or an outworn representative system. Laborcan never have its full share in the control of industry until ithas learnt the secrets of the group process. Collective bargainingmust first be the result of a genuine collective will before it cansuccessfully pass on to directorate representation, to completejoint control [1].     1. Yet perhaps the trade-union has been one of the truest     groups, one of the most effective teachers of genuine group     lessons which we have yet seen. Increased wages, improved     conditions, are always for the group. The trade-unionist feels     group-wants; he seeks to satisfy these through group action.      Moreover the terms of a collective bargain cannot be enforced     without a certain amount of group solidarity. In strikes     workmen often sacrifice their own interests for what will     benefit the union: the individual-I may prefer his present     wages to the privations of a strike; the group-I wants to     raise the wages of the whole union.  It is significant that the guild socialists, in considering howacrimonious disputes between guilds are to be avoided, say that"the labor and brains of each Guild naturally [will evolve] ahierarchy to which large issues of industrial policy might withconfidence be referred," and "at the back of this hierarchy andfinally dominating it, is the Guild democracy. . . ." But thenguild socialism is to have no different psychological basis fromour present system. This is exactly what we rely on now sopatiently, so unsuccessfully -- the lead of the few, the followingof the crowd, with the fiction that, as our government is based onnumbers, the crowd can always have what it wants; therefore, at anymoment what we have is what we have chosen -- Tammany rule forinstance.  We need a new method: the group process must be appliedto industrial groups as well as to neighborhood groups, to businessgroups, to professional societies -- to every form of humanassociation. If the labor question is to be solved by a system ofeconomic control based on economic representation instead of uponvital modes of association, "industrial democracy" will failexactly as so-called political democracy has failed.  Perhaps this warning is particularly necessary at the presentmoment because "group" control of industry seems imminent.  Throughthe pressure of the war guild socialism has made practical as wellas theoretical headway in England. There are two movements going onside by side, both due it is true to the emergency of war, butneither of which will be wholly lost when the war is over; it isthe opinion of many, on the contrary, that these movements aredestined to shape a new state for England. First, the governmenthas assumed a certain amount of control over munitions plants,railroads, mines, breweries, flour mills and factories of variouskinds, and it has undertaken the regulation of wages and prices,control of markets and food consumption, taxation of profits etc.[1].     1. I have not In this brief statement distinguished between     government "ownership," "control," "regulation," etc.  See     "War-Time Control of Industry" by Howard L. Gray.  Secondly, at the same time that the state is assuming a largercontrol of industry, it is inviting the workmen themselves to takepart in the control of industry. "The Whitely Report, adopted bythe Reconstruction Committee of the Cabinet, proposes not only aJoint Standing Industrial Council for each great national industry,for the regular consideration of matters affecting the progress andwell-being of the trade, but District Councils and Works Committeeswithin each business upon which capital and labor shall be equallyrepresented." These bodies will take up "questions of standardwages, hours, overtime, apprenticeship, shop discipline, . . .technical training, industrial research and invention, the adoptionof improved machinery and processes, and all those matters whichare included under 'scientific management'" [1].     1.  "Representative Government in British Industry" by J. A.     Hobson, in New Republic, September 1, 1917.  This is a step which goes far beyond arbitration and conciliationboards.  It gives to labor a positive share in the control ofindustry. "Although it is not at present proposed to give any legalrecognition to this new machinery of economic government or anylegal enforcement of its decision, . . . it may reasonably beexpected that [these national industrial councils] will soon becomethe effective legislature of the industry."  Most noteworthy is the general acceptance of this plan. "Allclasses appear to be willing and even anxious to apply theprinciple of representative self-government not only to the conductof the great trades but to their constituent businesses."Undoubtedly the English laborer has an increasing fear ofbureaucracy and this is turning him from state socialism: hispractical experience during the war of "tyrannical" bureaucracy inthe government controlled industries has lost state socialism manysupporters.  The establishment of the Standing Industrial Councils is a steptowards guild socialism although (1) the determination of lines ofproduction, the buying and selling processes, questions of finance,everything in fact outside shop-management, is at present left tothe employers, and (2) the capitalist is left in possession of hiscapital. But this movement taken together with the one mentionedabove, that is, the trend towards state-ownership or jointownership or partial control, has large significance: the state toown the means of production, the producers to control theconditions of production, seems like the next step in industrialdevelopment, in government form, -- the fact that these two gotogether, that government form is to follow industrial development,gives us large hope for the future.  The British Labor Party in 1917 formulated a careful plan forreorganization with a declared object of common ownership of meansof production and "a steadily increasing participation of theorganized workers in the management" [1]. This wording issignificant.  In America also the pressure of war has led to the recognition oflabor in the control of industry. Adjustment boards containinglabor representatives have been required of almost all privateemployers signing contracts with the War and Navy Departments [2].The policy of the administration is to recognize collectivebargaining.  And the President's Mediation Commission, whichimposed collective agreements on the copper industry of Arizona,stated in its official report, "The leaders of industry must . . .[enable] labor to take its place as a cooperator in the industrialenterprise." Moreover, the workman is gaining recognition not onlyin the management of the industry in which he is engaged, but alsoat Washington. On most of the important government boards whichdeal with matters affecting labor, labor is represented. The workof the War Labor Board and the War Labor Policies Board mark ouradvance in the treatment of labor questions.     1. See p.120.     2. Following the precedent of England which provided, under     the Munitions of War act and other legislation, machinery     (joint boards representing employers and employed) for the     prevention and adjustment of labor disputes.  The "National Party," inaugurated in Chicago in October, 1917,composed largely of socialists, had for one plank in its platform,"The chief industries should be controlled by administrative boardsupon which the workers, the managers and the government should allbe represented." Thus the old state socialism is passing.   In France long before the war we see the beginnings ofsyndicalism in the steps taken to give to the actual teaching forceof universities a share in the administration of the department ofeducation. In 1896-1897 university councils were established,composed of deans and two delegates elected by each universityfaculty. While these councils are under ministerial control, thisis hailed as the beginning of functionarist decentralization inFrance. In 1910 was organized the representation of all thepersonnel of the service of post, telephone and telegraph inregional and central councils of discipline, and also advisoryrepresentation to the heads of the service.  The best part of syndicalism is its recognition that everydepartment of our life must be controlled by those who know mostabout that department, by those who have most to do with thatdepartment. Teachers should share both in the legislation and theadministration affecting education. Factory laws should not be madeby a Parliament in which factory managers and employees are not, orare only partially, represented.  One movement toward syndicalism we see everywhere: the forming ofprofessional groups -- commercial, literary, scientific, artistic-- is as marked as the forming of industrial groups. Any analysisof society to-day must study its groupings faithfully. We are toldtoo that in France these professional groups are beginning to havepolitical power, as was seen in several large towns in themunicipal elections before the war.  Similar instances are notwanting in England and America.  In Germany there are three strong "interest" organizations whichhave a large influence on politics: the "Landlords' League" whichrepresents the conservatives, the "Social Democrats" who representlabor, and the "Hanseatic League for Manufactures, Trade andIndustry" founded in 1909 with the express object of bringingforward its members as candidates for the Reichstag and Landtags[1].     1. Christensen, "Politics and Crowd Morality," p.238.  We have an interesting instance in the United States of politicalorganization on occupational lines from which we may learn much --I refer to the Nonpartisan league of North Dakota composed offarmers which, inaugurated in 1915, in 1916-7 carried the stateelections of North Dakota, electing a farmer-governor, and puttingtheir candidates in three of the supreme court judgeships, andgaining 105 out of the 138 seats in the state legislature. Thefirst object of the league was the redress of economic injusticesuffered by the farmer. They saw that this must be done throughconcerted control of the political machinery. Of the legislationthey wished, they secured: (1) a new office of State Inspector ofGrains, Weights and Measures, (2) partial exemption of farmimprovements from taxation, (3) a new cooperative corporation law,and (4) a law to prevent railroads from discriminating, insupplying freight-cars, against elevators owned by farmers'cooperative societies.  In 1917 a Farmers' Nonpartisan League of the state of New Yorkwas organized. In September, 1917, the North Dakota League becamethe "National Nonpartisan League," the organization spreading toseveral of the neighboring states: Minnesota, South Dakota, Idaho,Montana, etc.  At the North Dakota state primaries held in thesummer of 1918, nearly all the League's candidates were nominated,thus insuring the continuance of its control of the stategovernment.  In Denmark we are told the battle rages between the agrarianparty and the labor party. More and more the struggle inParliamentary countries is becoming a struggle between interestsrather than between parties based on abstract principles.  Thismust be fully taken into account in the new state.  The hoped-for relation of industry to the state might be summedup thus: we want a state which shall include industry without onthe one hand abdicating to industry, or on the other controllingindustry bureaucratically. The present plans for guild socialism orsyndicate control, while they point to a possible futuredevelopment, and while they may be a step on the way, as a schemeof political organization have many weak points.  Such experimentsas the Industrial Councils of England are interesting, but untilfurther technique is worked out we shall find that individualselfishness merely gives way to group selfishness. From suchexperiments we shall learn much, but the new ship of state cannotride on such turbulent waters.  The part labor will take in the new state depends now largelyupon labor itself. Labor must see that it cannot reiterate its oldcries, that it need no longer demand "rights." It is a question ofa new conception of the state and labor seeing its place within it.For a new state is coming -- we cannot be blind to the signs onevery side, we cannot be deaf to the voices within. Labor needsleaders to-day who are alive not to the needs of labor, but to theneeds of the whole state: then it will be seen as a corollary howlabor fits in, what the state needs from labor, what labor needsfrom the state, what part labor is to have _in_ the state.