THE NEW STATEMary Parker FollettChapter XXXVThe World StateWE have seen the true state emerging through the Working of thefederal principle, dual in its nature:  (1) created by the law ofinterpenetration, the unifying of difference, and (2) representingthe multiple man in his essential nature. Through the furtherworking of this principle the world-state appears.  The lesson of the group is imperative for our internationalrelations. No "alliances," no balance of power, no agreements, noHague tribunals will now satisfy us; we know that it is only bycreating a genuine community of nations that we can have stabilityand growth -- world peace, world progress.  What are thecontributions of group psychology to the League of Nations?  There is no way out of the hell of our present European situationuntil we find a method of compounding difference.  Superficialmoralists try to get us to like some other nationality byemphasizing all the things we have in common, but war can nevercease until we see the value of differences, that they are to bemaintained not blotted out. The white-man's burden is not to makeothers like himself. As we see the value of the individual, ofevery individual, so we must see the value of each nation, that allare needed. The pacifists have wanted us to tolerate our enemiesand the more extreme ones to turn the other cheek when smitten. Buttolerance is intolerable. And we cannot dwell among enemies. Theideal of this planet inhabited by Christian enemies all turning thecheek does not seem to me a happy one. We must indeed, as theextreme militarists tell us, "wipe out" our enemies, but we do notwipe out our enemies by crushing them. The old-fashioned hero wentout to conquer his enemy; the modern hero goes out to disarm hisenemy through creating a mutual understanding.  The failure of international society in the past is a factfraught with deep significance: the differences between nations arenot to be overcome by one class of people in a country uniting withthe same class in another country. The upper classes of Petrograd,Berlin, Paris and London have very much the same manners andhabits. This has not brought peace. Artists the world over have acommon language.  Workingmen have tried to break down internationalbarriers by assuming that their interests were so identical thatthey could unite across these barriers. But this has failed tobring peace as the other _rapprochements_ have failed. Why? Becausethey are all on the wrong track. International peace is nevercoming by an increase of similarities (this is the old-fashionedcrowd-philosophy); international peace is coming by the frankestand fullest kind of recognition of our differences.Internationalism and cosmopolitanism must not be confused.  The aimof cosmopolitanism _is_ for all to be alike; the aim ofinternationalism is a rich content of widely varying characteristicand experience.  If it were true that we ought to increase the likenesses betweennations, then it would be legitimate for each nation to try toimpose its ideals upon others. In that case England would try tospread her particular brand of civilization, and Germany hers, forif some one kind of civilization has to prevail, each will want itto be his own. There is not room on this planet for a lot ofsimilar nations, but only for a lot of different nations. A groupof nations must create a group culture which shall be broader thanthe culture of one nation alone. There must be a world-ideal, awhole-civilization, in which the ideals and the civilization ofevery nation can find a place. The ideal of one nation is notantagonistic to the ideal of another, nor do these ideals exist ina row side by side, but these different kinds of civilization arebound up in one another. I am told that this is mysticism. It isthe most practical idea I have found in the world.  It is said that a mighty struggle is before us by-and-by whenEast meets West, and in that shock will be decided which of thesecivilizations shall rule the world -- that this is to be the greatworld-decision. No, the great world-decision is that each nationneeds equally every other, therefore each will not only protect,but foster and increase the other that thereby it may increase itsown stature.  Perhaps one of the most useful lessons to be learned from thegroup process is a new definition of patriotism. Patriotism mustnot be herd instinct. Patriotism must be the individual's rational,self-conscious building of his country every moment. Loyalty meansalways to create your group, not to wave a flag over it [1]. Weneed a patriotism which is not "following the lead" but involved ina process in which all take part. In the place of sentimentalpatriotism we want a common purpose, a purpose evolved by thecommon life, to be used for the common life. Some of our biologistsmislead us when they talk of the homogeneity of the herd as the aimof nations. The nation may be a herd at present. What we have to dois to make it a true group. Internationalism must be based upongroup units, not upon herd or crowd units, that is, upon peopleunited not by herd instinct but by group conviction. If a nation isa crowd, patriotism is mere hypnotism; if a nation is a truefederal state built up of interlocking and ascending groups, thenpatriotism is self-evolved. When you are building up an associationor a nation you have to preach loyalty; later it is part of thevery substance which has been built.     1. See pp.58-59.  Then genuine loyalty, a self-evolved loyalty will always lead theway to higher units. Nationalism looks out as well as in. It means,in addition to its other meanings, every nation being responsibleto a larger whole.  It is this new definition of patriotism whichAmerica is now learning.  It is this new patriotism which must betaught our children, which we must repeat to one another on ourspecial patriotic day, July 4th, and on every occasion when wemeet. This new patriotism looks in, it looks out: we have to learnthat we are not wholly patriotic when we are working with all ourheart for America merely; we are truly patriotic only when we areworking also that America may take her place worthily and helpfullyin the world of nations. Nationalism is not my nation for itself ormy nation against others or my nation dominating others, but simplymy nation taking its part as "an equal among equals."  Shall this hideous war go on simply because people will notunderstand nationalism?  Nationalism and internationalism are notopposed. We do not lop off just enough patriotism to our country tomake enough for a world-state: he who is capable of the greatestloyalty to his own country is most ready for a wider loyalty. Thereis possible no world-citizenship the ranks of which are to befilled by those who do not care very much for their own country. Wehave passed through a period when patriotism among cultivatedpeople seemed often to be at a discount -- the ideal was to be"citizens of the world." But we see now that we can never be"citizens of the world" until we learn how to be citizens ofAmerica or England or France. Internationalism is not going toswallow up nationalism. Internationalism will accentuate, givepoint, significance, meaning, value, reality, to nationalism.  Whether we can have a lasting peace or not depends upon whetherwe have advanced far enough to be capable of loyalty to a higherunit, not as a substitute for our old patriotism to our country,but in addition to it. Peace will come by the group consciousnessrising from the national to the international unit. This cannot bedone through the imagination alone but needs actual experiments inworld union, or rather experiments first in the union of two ormore nations. Men go round lecturing to kind-hearted audiences andsay, "Can you not be loyal to something bigger than a nation?" Andthe kind-hearted audiences reply, "Certainly, we will now, at yourvery interesting suggestion, be loyal to a league of nations." Butthis is only a wish on their part, its realization can never comeby _wishing_ but only by _willing_, and willing is a process, youhave to put yourself in a certain place from which to will. Wemust, in other words, try experiments with a league of nations, andout of the actual life of that league will come loyalty to it. Weare not ready for the life of the larger group because some teacherof ethics has taught us "to respect other men's loyalties." We areready for it when our experience has incorporated into every tissueof our thought-life the knowledge that we need other men'sloyalties. Loyalty, therefore, is not the chickens running back tothe coop, also it is not a sentiment which we decide arbitrarily toadopt, it is the outcome of a process, the process of belonging.  Of course there must be some motive for the larger union: weshall probably first get nations into an international leaguethrough their economic interests; then when we have a genuine unionthe sense of belonging begins. When men have felt the need oflarger units than nations and have formed "alliances," they havenot felt that they belonged to these alliances.  The sense ofbelonging ended at the British Empire or the German Empire. But thereason Germany became one empire and Italy one nation was becausean economic union brought it home to the people daily that theywere Italians, not Venetians, Germans, not Bavarians. We must feelthe international bond exactly as we feel the national bond. Someone in speaking of the difficulties of internationalism has said,"It is easier to make sacrifices for those whom you know well, yourown countrymen, than for strangers." But internationalism has notcome when we decide that we are willing to make sacrifices forstrangers. This fallacy has been the stumbling block of some of thepacifists. To make sacrifices for "strangers" will never succeed.We make sacrifices for our own nation because of group feeling. Weshall make sacrifices for a league of nations when we get the samefeeling of a bond.  We may, perhaps, look forward to Europe going through somethingof the same process which we have gone through in the UnitedStates. The colonies joined in a federal government.  The union wassomething entirely apart from themselves. The men of Massachusettswere first and last men of Massachusetts. We belonged for goodreasons to a larger unit, but it was only very slowly that wegained any actual feeling of belonging to the United States, ofloving it because we were a constituent part of it, because we werehelping to make it, not just as an external authority to which wehad promised loyalty. The American colonies did not undertake tolook pleasant and be kind to one another, they went to work andlearned how to live together.  And state jealousy has beendiminished every year, not by any one preaching to us, but by theprocess of living together. This is what may happen in a league ofnations.  The great lesson of the group process, in which others areinvolved, is that particularism, however magnified, is no longerpossible. There is no magic by which selfishness becomes patriotismthe moment we can invoke the nation. The change must be this: as wesee now that a nation cannot be healthy and virile if it is merelyprotecting the rights of its members, so we must see that we canhave no sound condition of world affairs merely by the protectionof each individual nation -- that is the old theory of individualrights. Each nation must play its part in some larger whole.Nations have fought for national rights. These are as obsolete asthe individual rights of the last century. What raises this war toa place never reached by any war before is that the Allies are notfighting for national rights. As long as history is read thecontribution of America to the Great War will be told as America'staking her stand squarely and responsibly on the position thatnational particularism was in 1917 dead.   And as we are no longer to talk of the "rights" of nations, so nolonger must "independent" nations be the basis of union.  In ourpresent international law a sovereign nation is one that isindependent of other nations -- surely a complete legal fiction. And when stress is laid on independence in external relations asthe nature of sovereignty, it is but a step to the German idea thatindependence of others can develop into authority over others. Thistendency is avoided when we think of sovereignty: (1) _as lookingin_, as authority over its own members, as the independence whichis the result of the complete interdependence of those members; andwhen we at the same time (2) think of this independence as _lookingout_ to other independences to form through a largerinterdependence the larger sovereignty of a larger whole.Interdependence is the keynote of the relations of nations as it isthe keynote of the relations of individuals within a nation.  As noman can be entirely free except through his perfected relation tohis group, so no nation can be truly independent until a genuineunion has brought about interdependence.  As we no longer thinkthat every individual has a final purpose of his own independent ofany community, so we no longer think that each nation has a"destiny" independent of the "destiny" of other nations.  The error of our old political philosophy was that the statealways looks in: it has obligations to its members, it has none toother states; it merely enters into agreements with them for mutualbenefit thereby obtained.  International law of the future must bebased not on nations as "sovereigns" dealing with one another, buton nations as members of a society dealing with one another.  Thedifference in these conceptions is enormous.  We are told thatCessions of sovereignty must be the basis of an internationalgovernment.  We cannot have a lasting international union until weentirely reform such notions of sovereignty; that the power of thelarger unit is produced mechanically by taking away bits of powerfrom all the separate units.  Sovereignty is got by giving to everyunit its fullest value and thereby giving birth to a new power --the power of a larger whole.  We must give up "sovereign" nationsin the old sense, but with our present definition of sovereignty wemay keep all the real sovereignty we have and then unite to evolvetogether a larger sovereignty.  This idea must be carefully worked out: we can take eachso-called "sovereign power" which we are thinking of "delegating"to a League of Nations and we can see that that delegating does notmake us individual nations less "sovereign" and less "free" butmore so -- it is the Great Paradox of our time. The object of everyproper "cession" of sovereignty is to make us freer than everbefore. Is it to be "sovereign" and "free" for nations suspiciouslyand fearfully to keep sleepless watch on one another while theybuild ship for ship, plane for plane? Have England and Germany beenproudly conscious of their "freedom" when thinking of CentralAfrica? When the individual nations give up their separatesovereignty -- as regards their armaments, as regards the controlof the regions which possess the raw materials, as regards thegreat waterways of the world, as regards, in fact, all whichaffects their joint lives -- the falling chains of a real slaverywill reverberate through the world. For unrelated sovereignty, withworld conditions as they are to-day, is slavery.  The idea of "sovereign nations must go as completely as isdisappearing the idea of sovereign individuals. The isolation ofsovereign nations is so utterly complete that they cannot really(and I mean this literally) even see each other. The InternationalLeague is the one solution for the relation of nations. Whenever wesay we can have a "moral" international law on any other basis, wewrite ourselves down pure sentimentalists.  There are many corollaries to this project. We do not need, forinstance, a more vigorous protection of neutrals, but the abolitionof neutrals. The invasion of the rights of neutrals in this war byboth sides shows that we can no longer have neutrals in our schemeof union; all must come within the bond.  Further, diplomatic relations will be entirely changed. "Honoramong thieves" means loyalty to your group: while to lie or to tryto get the better of your own particular group is an unpardonableoffense, you may deceive an outsider. We see now the psychologicalreason for this. Diplomatic lying will not go until diplomatistsinstead of treating with one another as members of alien groupsconsider themselves all as members of one larger group - the Leagueof Nations.  Moreover, one nation cannot injure another merely; the injurywill be against the community, and the community of nations willlook upon it as such. Under our present international system theattack of one nation on another is the same as the attack of oneoutlaw on another. But under a civilized international system, theattack of one individual on another is an attack on society and thewhole society must punish it.  The punishment, however, will notconsist in keeping the offender out of the alliance. If the Allieswin, Germany should not be punished by keeping her out of aEuropean league; she must be shown how to take her place within it.And it must be remembered that we do not join a league of nationssolely to work out our relations to one another, but to learn towork for the larger whole, for international values. Until thislesson is learned no league of nations can be successful.  Finally, the League of Nations is against the theory of thebalance of power, but this has been already considered in thechapter on The Federal State.  To sum up all these particularist fallacies: live and let livecan never be our international motto.  _Laissez-faire_ falls asignominiously in international relations as within a single nation.Our new motto must be, Live in such manner that the fullness oflife may come to all. This is "the ledge and the leap" fortwentieth-century thought.  Organized cooperation is in the future to be the basis ofinternational relations. We are international in our interests. Wedo not want an American education, an English education, a Frencheducation. "Movements" seek always an international society. Wehave international finance. Our standards of living are becominginternationalized. Socially, economically, in the world of thought,national barriers are being broken down. It is only in politicsthat we are national. This must soon change: with all these_rapprochement_ we cannot be told much longer of fundamentaldifferences between us which can be settled only by murdering eachother.  People thought that Italy could not be united, that the duchiesof Germany would never join. Cavour and Bismarck had indeed no easypart. But if one hundred millions of people in Central Europe canbe made to see the evils of separation, cannot others? With ourgreater facilities of communication, with our increased commercialintercourse and our increased realization of interdependence ofnations (a manufacturing nation cannot get along without thefood-producing nations, etc.), this ought not now to be impossible.Or has the single state exhausted our political ability? Are wewilling to acknowledge this? We have had very little idea yet of acommunity of nations. The great fault of Germany is not that sheoverestimates her own power of achievement, which is indeedmarvelous, but that she has never yet had any conception of acommunity of nations. Let her apply all her own theory of thesubordination of the individual to the whole to the subordinationof Germany to an allied Europe, and she would be a most valuablemember of a European league.  The group process thus shows us that a genuine community ofnations means the correlation of interests, the development of aninternational ethics, the creation of an international will, theself-evolving of a higher loyalty, and above all and including all,the full responsibility of every nation for the welfare of everyother.  With such an aim before us courts of arbitration seem a sorrymakeshift. We are told that as individuals no longer fight duelsbut take their disputes into the courts, so nations must nowarbitrate, that is, take their dispute to some court. But what hasreally ousted duels has not been the courts but a differentconception of the relation between men; so what will do away withwar will not be courts of arbitration, but a different conceptionof the relations between nations.  We need machinery not merely forsettling disputes but for preventing disputes from arising; notmerely for interpreting past relations, but for giving expressionto new relations; not merely to administer international law, butto make international law -- not a Hague court but an internationallegislature.  A community of nations needs a constitution, not treaties.Treaties are of the same nature as contract. Just as in internallaw contract is giving way to the truer theory of community, so thesame change must take place in international law. It is true thatthe first step must be more progressive treaties before we can hopefor a closer union, but let us keep clearly before us the goal inorder that in making these treaties they shall be such that theywill open the way in time to a real federation, to an internationallaw based not on "sovereign" nations.  We have already seen that it is the _creation_ of a collectivewill which we need most in our social and political life, not theenforcing of it. it is the same with a league of nations -- we mustcreate an international will. We want neither concession norcompromise. And a vague "brotherhood" is certainly not enough. Aswe have seen the group as the workshop for the making of thecollective will, so we see that we cannot have an internationalwill without creating a community of nations. Group psychology willrevolutionize international law. The group gets its authoritythrough the power it has _in itself_ of integrating ideas andinterests. No so-called collective will which is not a genuinecollective will, that is, which is not evolved by this process,will have real authority; therefore no stable internationalrelations are possible except those founded on the creation of anactual community of nations.  What interests us most in all the war literature is any proposed_method_ of union. The importance of an international league as apeace plan is that you can never aim directly at peace, peace iswhat you get through other things. Much of the peace propagandaurges us to choose peace rather than war. But the decision between"war" or "peace" never lies within our power. These are mere wordsto gather up in convenient form of expression an enormous amountthat is underneath. All sorts of interests compete, all sorts ofideas compete or join: if they can join, we have peace; if theymust compete, we have war. But war or peace is merely an outcome ofthe process; peace or war has come, by other decisions, long beforethe question of peace or war ever arises.  All our hope therefore of future international relations lies,not in the ethical exhortations of the pacifists, nor in plans foran economic war, but in the recognition of the possibility of acommunity of nations.  In making a plea for some experiment in internationalcooperation, I remember, with humiliation, that we have foughtbecause it is the easy way. Fighting solves no problems. Theproblems which brought on this war will all be there to be settledwhen the war ends. But we have war as the line of least resistance.We have war when the mind gives up its job of agreeing as toodifficult [1]. It is often stated that conflict is a necessity ofthe human soul, and that if conflict should ever disappear fromamong us, individuals would deteriorate and society collapse. Butthe effort of agreeing is so much more strenuous than thecomparatively easy stunt of fighting that we can harden ourspiritual muscles much more effectively on the former than thelatter. Suppose I disagree with you in a discussion and we make noeffort to join our ideas, but "fight it out." I hammer away with myidea, I try to find all the weakest parts of yours, I refuse to seeanything good in what you think. That is not nearly so difficult astrying to recognize all the possible subtle interweavings ofthought, how one part of your thought, or even one aspect of onepart, may unite with one part or one aspect of one part of mineetc. Likewise with cooperation and competition in business:cooperation is going to prove so much more difficult thancompetition that there is not the slightest danger of any onegetting soft under it.     1. It has usually been supposed that wars have been the     all-important element in consolidating nations; I do not want     to disregard this element, I want only to warn against its     over emphasis. Moreover, the way in which wars have had a real     and permanent influence in the consolidation of nations is by     the pressure which they have exerted upon them in showing them     that efficiency is obtained by the closest cooperation and     coordination of all our activities, by a high degree of     internal organization.  The choice of war or peace is not the choice between effort andstagnation. We have thought of peace as the lambs lying downtogether after browsing on the consciousness of their happyagreements. We have thought of peace as a letting go and war as agirding up. We have thought of peace as the passive and war as theactive way of living. The opposite is true. War is not the moststrenuous life. It is a kind of rest-cure compared to thetask of reconciling our differences.  I knew a young business manwho went to the Spanish war who said when he came back that it hadbeen as good as going to a sanitarium; he had simply obeyedcommands and had not made a decision or thought a thought since heleft home. From war to peace is not from the strenuous to the easyexistence; it is from the futile to the effective, from thestagnant to the active, from the destructive to the creative way oflife.  If, however, peace means for you simply the abstinence frombloodshed, if it means instead of the fight of the battlefield, thefight of employer and employed, the fight of different interests inthe legislature, the fight of competing business firms, that is adifferent matter. But if you are going to try to _solve_ theproblems of capital and labor, of competing business interests, ofdiffering nations, it is a tougher job than standing up on thebattlefield.  We are told that when the North Sea fishermen found that theywere bringing flabby codfish home to market, they devised thescheme of introducing one catfish into every large tank of codfish.The consequent struggle hardened the flesh of the fish and theycame firm to market. The conclusion usually drawn from all suchstories is that men need fighting to keep them in moral condition.But what I maintain is that if we want to train our moral muscleswe are devising a much harder job for them if we try to agree withour catfish than to fight him.  Civilization calls upon us to "Agree with thine adversary." Itmeans a supreme effort on our part, and the future of the worlddepends upon whether we can make this effort, whether we are equalto the cry of civilization to the individual man, to the individualnation. It is a supreme effort because it is not, as sometimesthought, a matter of feeling. To feel kindly, to desire peace --no, we must summon every force of our natures, trained minds anddisciplined characters, to find the _methods_ of agreement. We maybe angry and fight, we may feel kindly and want peace -- it is allabout the same. The world will be regenerated by the people whorise above both these passive ways and heroically seek, by whateverhardship, by whatever toil, the methods by which people _can_agree.  What has this young twentieth century gone out to fight?Autocracy? The doctrine of the right of might? Yes, and whereverfound, in Germany or among ourselves. And wherever found these reston the consciousness of separateness.  It is the conviction ofseparateness which has to be conquered before civilization canproceed. Community must be the foundation stone of the New State.*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     The history of modern times from the point of view of politicalscience is the history of the growth of democracy; from the pointof view of social psychology it is the history of the growth of thesocial consciousness. These two are one. But the mere consciousnessof the social bond is not enough. Frenssen said of Jorn Uhl, "Hebecame conscious of his soul, but it was empty and he had now tofurnish it." We have become conscious of a social soul, we have nowto give it content. It is a long way from the maxim, "Religion isan affair between man and his Maker," to the cry of Mazzini, "Italyis itself a religion," but we surely to-day have come to see in thesocial bond and the Creative Will, a compelling power, a depth andforce, as great as that of any religion we have ever known. We areready for a new revelation of God. It is not coming through anysingle man, but through the men and men who are banding togetherwith one purpose, in one consecrated service, for a greatfulfillment. Many of us have felt bewildered m a confused andchaotic world. We need to focus both our aspirations and ourenergy; we need to make these effective and at the same time tomultiply them by their continuous use. This book is a plea for themore abundant life: for the fullness of life and the growing life.It is a plea against everything static, against the idea that thereneed be any passive material within the social bond. It is a pleafor a splendid progress dependent upon every splendid one of us. Weneed a new faith in humanity, not a sentimental faith or atheological tenet or a philosophical conception, but an activefaith in that creative power of men which shall shape governmentand industry, which shall give form equally to our daily life withour neighbor and to a world league.